Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
When I think of
science fiction, I think of
stories in any medium
that tell us what we could be
and warn us about where we're going.
Every piece of science fiction
that I enjoy works as pure entertainment,
and it also works as a social commentary,
philosophy or inspirational ideas.
It was always a genre that carried with it
a sense of taking the
temperature of its own times.
It's a ripe genre, it's
full of interesting
twists and offshoots.
I can get you deseases.
You'd like that, wouldn't you?
There are so many subgenres
that are available to us
and I think really give
this kind of rich landscape.
Science fiction storytelling
exists from the beginning
of filmmaking and persists through
two centuries.
Images
that we see in cinema
today are built on images from movies
like 2001, a space odyssey,
Metropolis and things to come.
In the '50s,
sci fi was an extension of science,
and science was all about the atom,
and the atom was all about,
they're going to blow us up
or we're going to have a wonderful future
because of our friend of the atom.
The people doing these science
fiction films in the '803,
they cut their teeth on '50s sci fi,
but what they did is they said,
we love sci fi for what it represents.
The post atomic scare that stimulated
so many of these low budget Saturday
matinee type movies.
They really impacted us as children.
But in a different way than
films now in the '703,
films tend to be more socially conscious,
more artistically presented.
But let's take a b movie
and just do it as though we're doing
an art film, without a happy ending.
The twist
towards the dark, nihilistic sci fi,
I think, was largely a response against
technology, government, war,
especially in the Vietnam era.
A lot of those dystopian films
were warning about global warming
and the arms race.
You maniacs! You blew it up!
Things that I think made
people feel very small
and very out of control.
And that seems to really be
what science fiction is about
until star wars.
The whole tone of science fiction
and films really changes
with Lucas and Spielberg
in the '703 and '80s,
and it starts showing us the
positive possibilities in our world
as opposed to constantly warning us
about all the ways we're messing up.
Spielberg said, "can't we go back to what
I grew up with, which is the beauty
of sci fl and imagination?
Let's not dwell on the corrupting
influence of technology."
For the next decade
or so across the '803,
that amalgamation of science, fiction,
and fantasy, seemed to be
the driving force.
Science fiction became direct,
straightfonnard, provocative, clear.
Any idea that anybody had
if you set it on another planet or
set it in the future, set it in dystopia,
you could get the money to do it.
Now, sci fi was viable box office.
And now the studios are
throwing money at the genre
and you're getting the best filmmakers
and the best actors,
and they have the funds
to take you to other places.
Sci fi truly came of age and exploded
in the '80s.
We are creating machines
that mimic human behavior.
The human body, human intelligence.
In saturn 3, you see
the biomimicry of Hector,
the machine taking on its human
creators ideas and psychopathy.
Certainly, the way
saturn 3 was sold, leaned
heavily on alien, robot, science.
All that kind of stuff, but it leaned
even more heavily on Farrah fawcett
and that absolutely stunning smile of hers,
in the fact that all of us
were enamored of Farrah
from Charlie's angels.
I had that poster,
everybody had that poster.
And the idea that Farrah fawcett
might be wearing something sexy or
nothing at all, definitely got my
young self out to see saturn 3.
The movie you got, however,
was a completely different movie.
You're quite an event in our lives.
Well, I guess you don't
get many drop-ins on satrun 3.
Hardly ever, especially
not from earth.
We are on a space station that is slick,
and designed and shiny and colorful,
and all the edges are smoothed out.
All of the ideas
that might have been initiated
by alien are gone by the time
you get to the finish product of saturn 3.
We get to see
kirk Douglas naked a lot,
but not Farrah fawcett.
That was kind of
fonnard thinking.
Doesn't it disgust you
to be used by him?
To be touched by an old man?
Can't you feel the decay?
The notion that he wanted
to express his virility,
that he's still a leading man,
that he was still an action star.
Kirk Douglas was very particular
about that. About that in terms
of the notion of of men, of male
movie stars and actors
and the way that they
should come off in film.
Abort!
Glad you didn't ask
him to shake hands.
It's a complicated film, you got
you got Stanley donen the singin'
in the rain director, directing
this sort of science fiction opera
with this crazy, oversexed robot.
No! No! No!
He's probably not the
right director for that.
The production designer, John Barry,
he was probably the correct person.
The scenario was based on his stories.
But kirk didn't like John and so got him
fired and had Stanley donen hired.
So you have kirk Douglas,
who doesn't like John Barry.
He gets rid of him.
And then you have Stanley donen,
who doesn't like Harvey keitel's voice.
Now we have this weird
sort of quasi British voice
coming out of Harvey keitel's face.
Why won't you talk?
Why not? What have I done wrong?
All of these decisions just sort of led
to something of a mess of a movie,
except for Farrah fawcett.
Kudos to Farrah fawcett
for dealing with all those boys
and what was going on there.
It just didn't seem to connect
with the bigger universe
in the way that the star wars films had.
No, this was all stuff happening
on this space station
between these people and a freaky robot.
Check me.
The whole star wars
experience is a phenomenon.
It opened up horizons in a way
that nobody ever imagined.
I'm going in.
I loved it
the force is strong with this one.
I always felt that George Lucas
was a very unique individual
who had a unique point of view.
I often wondered if he knew
what he was really introducing.
The emprie strikes back
coming to your galaxy next summer.
With lando,
I didn't want to make a black character,
or a white character. Lando was lando.
It's like Billy Dee to me is Billy Dee.
I want to show you my
own personal uniqueness.
How you doin', you old pirate?
It's so good to see you!
I wanted to talk about
a swashbuckling kind of individual.
Welcome, Leia.
That was an honor, to work with kershner.
He was a real actor's director
for one thing, so he really understood
the human behavior.
Well, your highness,
I guess this is it.
That's right.
Don't get all mushy on me.
So long, Princess.
It wasn't just purely based on
this kind of a journey into space.
Punch it!
One of the great things
about playing a kind of
a dubious character.
They're not bad people,
they're just caught up in situations.
I remember picking my
daughter from school,
and the kids would accuse
me of betraying hansel.
And I'm right in the
middle of the schoolyard
having this debate with these kids.
I had no choice. They arrived
right before you did.
I'm sorry.
If you express those characters
through a kind of vulnerability,
then I think it makes it more palatable
and much more interesting.
I am your father.
George wanted to keep everything secret,
he wanted everything
to be a surprise in the movie.
Unlike keri and Mark, who signed
contracts for multiple movies,
Harrison only signed for one movie,
and each movie was a separate contract
with him.
George wasn't sure he would
come back for jedi.
So that's why, at the end of empire,
Han Solo gets frozen in carbonite.
I love you.
I know.
They needed a way, if Harrison
didn't come back for the third movie,
how do you explain what happened?
But if he does come back, you defrost him,
and we're all happy.
George is more of an idea person,
that has these great,
fantastic visions.
And I was a little bit surprised
because he was talking about
the budget for empire strikes back.
And he was trying to figure out
how not to spend the more money than he
spent on the first star wars movie.
I'm thinking this guy is this monolith
as far as creativity is concerned.
But here's a guy thinking about
how much money am I spending
to put an idea together.
Yeah, it's show business.
Part of the pressure
that George was feeling
was because he had financed
empire himself as opposed
to having a studio do it.
And when the movie ran
over time and budget,
he had to put up more collateral.
And so there was a lot of pressure
that, had the movie not been successful,
he could have ended up back at the start.
Echo-station five-seven,
we're on our way.
George Lucas
was a gift. He changed the
whole world of cinema.
He introduced all of these new ideas.
How do you explain that experience?
It was meant to be.
It changed everything.
Introducing Dorothy
r. Stratten, playboy's
playmate of the year, as
your favorite gal.
Galaxina.
I couldn't tell you the plot of that
at all, it was Dorothy stratten, right?
I mean, that's all you need to know.
She was delightful to watch.
When I look at galaxina,
what I see is possibility,
all kinds of possibilities.
Galaxina is a parody movie.
Name's Mr. Spot.
Star Trek, star wars,
a little bit of alien.
And all of the movies
that were made before it
that were way, way better. At least two
tropes exist in the film galaxina.
These sort of representations of
the cantina from star wars,
where all of these creatures
from all over the universe are.
And the image of that spacecraft
coming across the screen,
and going on forever, all kinds of nutty
things going on in that movie.
There's one relationship in that
movie that works and rings
as true and real. And it's the relationship
between galaxina and Stephen mok's
character, he plays Thor.
You're a machine, and
I'm a human being.
Which is just another
kind of machine really.
They fall in love,
but they can't really be in love
because she's an Android.
But she figures out
how to correct something
so that she can have human feelings.
I love you, sgt. Thor
those moments between those two actors,
are the realest moments in that movie.
In galaxina, we see the first idea
of sex bots in artificial
intelligent machines.
How will they feel if they
develop self-awareness?
Where is the line?
Really pulls at our psychology.
I really think those provocative
stories are important for us.
What it all adds up to is something
that's not quite as good
as those individual pieces,
but those individual pieces
that are stuck in my head,
I will probably remember forever.
I will remember that alien coming
out of Avery schreiber's mouth, forever.
Galaxina, sadly, the thing
that hangs over it
more than anything is the
murder of Dorothy stratten.
It's hard to think of the movie
without remembering
what happened to her.
I really appreciate galaxina, and not just
because of what happened to Dorothy,
but because there was something
suggested in that movie,
that there could have been more there
and there might have been
more in the future for her.
The final countdown
is about to begin.
is about the USS nimitz,
an aircraft carrier in 1980
that gets sent back in time
to December 6th, 1941.
That was taken less
than an hour ago.
I don't understand, sir. These
are pre-world war ii pictures.
Single handedly, with the one aircraft
carrier and all the modern technology
they have at their disposal,
could absolutely thwart
the attack on Pearl harbor.
The United States of America
falls under attack.
Our job is to defend it.
The past, present or future.
Now, the question that the captain
and the crew have to face
is, do they do that because they are sworn
defenders of the United States,
and this is an enemy?
Or do they allow history to play
out as we know it did?
The classic time travel dilemma.
You jump back.
You've now caused this weird ripple
effect that you didn't expect.
This is going to create a
fracture in the timeline.
We know where all of the mistakes are
going to be made for the next 40 years.
And you've got the power to correct them.
You stay out of this.
The final countdown is a great example
of that idea that, you know,
do you interfere or don't you?
If we could travel back in time,
would we want to change history?
How it would affect the future?
What if you go back in time and it kills
the bloodline of your grandparents,
then you never exist.
I still have a gut instinct that
things only happened once,
and if they have happened, then there's
nothing we can do to change them.
Nor should we try.
There's all these paradoxical ideas
that exist in science fiction
that have never been
really answered satisfactorily,
because we don't have the science
yet to lean one way or another.
It's an interesting enough
storyline that draws us in
and makes us think, you know, the
ramifications of action or inaction.
This is the United States warship.
Or at least, it used to be!
Or will be, or what
the hell ever!
Who are you?
Flash Gordon, quarterback,
New York jets.
Flash Gordon was true
to the buster crabbe
serials and Alex Raymond
comic books.
I think if Nick roeg
had done flash Gordon
as the original plan was,
it would have been
a completely different movie than
the one that Mike Hodges did.
I can hear dino now saying,
"no, it is a crazy, don't
do it like this, it is too much dream
like, we want with guns and shooting,
and girls with big tits." You know?
Dino de laurentiis.
He was like a svengali.
He had this big vision
that the movie mattered
above all else.
Michael Hodges came in
three weeks before filming.
Strange object imaged
in the imperial vortex.
We ended up
basically improvising quite a bit.
Yeah.
When you improvise,
sometimes you get gold.
Go, flash. Go!
The sets were amazing,
the costume was outrageously great.
What was flash Gordon wearing
during the execution scene?
Hot pants, okay?
Green leather, hot pants.
Tip of the hat to danilo donati,
who was the set and costume designer,
he should have been nominated
at least for an academy award.
Pathetic earthlings.
Hurling your bodies
out into the void.
Max Von sydow,
his costume was so heavy
and difficult, he couldn't
sit down, they had to
lean him on a backboard.
Gordon's alive!
Brian blessed. They broke the mold
when he came to this planet.
To the death!
In the scene
with the moving disc
with Sam and Timothy Dalton,
Brian blessed is just making
one crack after another.
I was laughing so hard.
Why are prisoners tortured?
And the scene where I'm on the table
and he pinches
my bottom was not in the script,
it was a Brian blessed special.
I have my suspicions.
One of the amazing things
about flash Gordon,
it was the sweetness of it, the innocence.
Oh, it's so crazy!
And that sweetness allows for the room
to have all these double entendres.
Some adult content,
subtle and not-so-subtle.
Ming has his magic ring that
causes me to have a lot of pleasure.
But it works because I'm this
innocent who just doesn't quite know
what's going on.
Did you ever see such repsonse?
No, truly. She even
rivals your daughter.
Look at ornella, that seduction scene
where she's sitting on my lap,
I kept telling the director,
I'm not really getting this.
I need another take, okay?
Oh my god, this girl's
really turning me on.
I didn't quite get that.
Think it again.
Oh, yeah,
that took it to a whole nother level.
I was told in the beginning
dino did not want queen.
He was quoted as saying,
“no, that's a not for my movie."
Queen not only complimented flash Gordon,
it brought tremendous value.
It was rock and roll, it was
festive, it was lyrical,
and that's what the movie is.
This is not a dark movie,
it's a cartoon strip,
so it was supposed to
be energetic and fun.
It is what it is.
Just sit back and enjoy being transported.
If you're faced with
any storm in your life,
you just call upon flash Gordon.
It's timeless.
Yeah!
If you were a kid coming
of age in the 1980s,
you were worried
that nuclear war would start.
We were at the height
of the cold war in the 1980s.
The height of an understanding
of what nuclear technology could do
and its potential for devastation.
I remember as a child, we lived
near an air force base.
Four bells meant get under the desk.
- Duck!
- Duck and cover.
Duck and cover.
Duck and cover yourselves.
And they're telling you that's going
to save you from a new killer attack.
Duck and cover. Attaboy, Tony.
That flash means: Act fast.
This was a given, this was going to happen.
So, of course, we all had
nightmares, I had very vivid ones.
Superpowers were going head to
head every other week in the news,
and we entered the '80s
with enormous apprehension.
If the Soviet union is attacked, we will
answer with all our nuclear might.
What science fiction films
did at that time,
I think was gave us
an outlet, a catharsis,
by extrapolating the
potential for devastation.
By the time you had Reagan in
the us, and Thatcher in the UK,
and you had sort of the latter
era Soviet leadership,
there was enormous western exceptionalism
that invaded all of the art.
So it wasn't surprising that
the audiences escaped as a means
of processing fears and ideas
about the geopolitical situation,
but also the political situation at home,
which wasn't great either.
I was in the air force
for most of the 19803.
I was stationed in a nuclear silo
in north Dakota for a portion of time.
These fears were palpable.
So when we went to see movies like
wargames, firefox,
these films tried to be
as realistic, speculative
but as realistic as possible.
I'm speaking to the individual who has
stolen the property of the ussr.
We're getting the royal treatment.
So whether you're talking about a movie
like Superman iv, a bond movie or a movie
like weird science where a nuclear missile
comes up through the floor in the bedroom,
the cold war is right there in the film.
When we saw these movies,
we didn't have to be so scared
we could let somebody else
handle the problem.
Wolverines!
And something really drove James Cameron
as a filmmaker, nuclear war,
and that whole idea is in all his films.
It's a background to skynet
and the Terminator.
It's there in aliens.
I say we take off and nuke
the entire site from orbit.
And it's a motif in Cameron films,
the mushroom clouds.
And by Terminator 2, you get
that shocking dream sequence.
And it really was in your
face by that point.
It wasn't a metaphor anymore.
It really was James Cameron going,
"this is what it's going
to be like, people."
Do you know exactly what your
family would do if an attack came?
On the other side of it,
you got parables like threads,
which was made in britain
about what happens if a
nuclear attack actually went off.
The real threat
of nuclear armageddon
was never very far away,
so when the day after comes out, it took
what was an existential fear for
me and it gave it visuals.
It won't be pretty, it won't be fast,
I mean, the lucky ones,
will die out, right?
Nothing on network television
like this had ever been shown.
If you have a nuclear war,
this is what it's going
to be like on a good day.
The day after was a huge
television phenomenon.
It showed that you could
do the darker story.
It was painful to watch
because the radiation
was definitely going to get to
us and kill us at some point.
The day after is the most watched
movie made for television ever.
100 million people watched it
in one night, so I was quite stunned.
But there was one person's mind
who was changed overnight,
and that happened to be the president
of the United States, Ronald Reagan,
who had come to power believing
that there was such a thing
as a winnable nuclear war.
I spent the '80s in Thatcher's London.
I was very interested in
getting Reagan out of office.
My fear of what these
politicians can do, the people
that I cannot control.
I focus my energies on what I can do
in my own little corner of the world.
We've been living
with the cold war since world war ii,
generations have lived under that threat,
and I don't think one generation
is any more immune to
that threat than another.
Today, you know, we're worried
about the very slow end of the world
from, you know, environmental
things or terrorist acts.
I think ever since we created the
bomb, the world has been different.
People were just channeling
their beliefs, their fears or nightmare
scenarios into these stories.
And now we're at an age
where in the modern day,
it's all about lack of privacy
and how the Internet and the machines
are going to take over.
And we're going to become
dehumanized to the point
where we're just slaves to the machines.
It's an interesting cycle
to have walked through.
In the '803, there were several
shrinking movies, which I guess
somehow that became funny.
Honey, I shrunk the kids, the incredible
shrinking woman and innerspace.
And they were all good.
Now, how about a big
hand with a little lady?
The incredible shrinking woman.
To take on the book
incredible shrinking man.
The top news story of the day continues
to be the incredible shrinking woman.
I'm sure there must be
some logical explanation.
The satire on advertising.
Galaxy blue. Galaxy blue.
She's a tiny housewife,
and she has to deal with
all these products coming at her.
The glue, the solvent,
your bubble bath.
Talcum powder, shampoo...
He was making fun of these products
that are fed to them like
this is going to make your life better.
It's called
tre natural.
And what started to happen
with the women's movement
is they were going,
I don't want to make my life
at home better that much.
I want to be out of here.
Making dinner or doing
the laundry is not all
I want to do.
Judith, I don't think this
is such a good idea.
Lily tomlin, she's perfect
because she's a comedian
and she can embody the craziness
of that. She has this insane range.
And you better lay off
of buttons, fester.
I'm in it for like a very
short amount of time.
I'm advertising soap,
but they cut it.
When Lily hit in the Barbie
dream house, it's so great
because that's an iconic thing from girls
childhood to be the size of your dolls.
It's all about the insignificance.
Off the frutniture!
And what are you grinning
at, you big creep?
The dolls,
if they were bigger than you, life size,
they would be terrifying.
Lily gets smaller
and smaller, and then falls
into the garbage disposal,
which is, first of all, everyone's
nightmare, like when you drop something
to the garbage disposal
and you have to reach in,
and take it out.
There's like a built in terror.
That's the big, actual
visual point that she's
not a factor anymore.
She's just doing herjob and she's
becoming smaller and smaller as a person.
I'm going to lose my mind!
And it's the war that women
then started to feel like
this isn't my life,
I don't want this to be my life.
I'm sick of products!
I'm sick of advertising!
You're talking about my work!
See, I love things that
have themes like that.
More champagne?
Vance, look what you did!
Outland. The ultimate
enemy is still man.
An underrated classic
from early '803 science fiction.
Sean Connery plays a federal marshal
who was sent to this backwater
mining colony on a moon of Jupiter.
He discovers a drug operation
where the drugs that are being used
by the miners and sold to the miners
to make them boost their productivity
is actually killing them.
Get it off!
I was desperate to make a western.
Certainly after people like George Lucas
figured out, wait a second,
the western is not dead, it's alive,
it's in outer space, so I modeled it
after dodge city, the frontier aspect
of it, the harshness and the danger
and the greed, and the fact that
if you just stepped outside, you died.
That's a completely conceivable future
where we actually go out and we actually
mine asteroids and mine planets
and stuff. And it's a corporate entity.
We're on our way to becoming the
leading con amalgamate operation.
And everyone in this room has
received the bonus checks to prove it.
It's a social commentary
about how to control economies
and how to control corporate people.
We are all professionals.
I'm sure we are.
I first wrote it when I was at universal.
I remember ned tanen read
the script and said,
"I like it, we'll make it if
Eastwood will do it."
And I said, "well, you'll make
the phone book if Eastwood will do it."
Sean Connery will...
He'll bring Connery to whatever he plays.
Zero ego about anything to do
with him and total ego
about how to make the movie good.
So every discussion you had with him
was how to make the script better.
How to make the movie better.
He was a remarkable guy.
There's a whole machine that works,
because everybody does
what they're supposed to.
I did write one
line where I said,
I can't wait for him to say it.
And it's at the end of a very big chase.
He's got a guy cornered in the kitchen
and then he fires his gun
all around the guy.
Think it over.
It's like butter with him.
When they dig more oil,
the company's happy.
When the company's happy, I'm happy.
I first knew
Peter boyle from seeing
a movie called Joe.
So the first film that I ever
wrote, I got to know Peter
and thought he was terrific. And I
needed somebody with some grit.
If you're looking for money,
you're smarter than you look.
If you're not, you're
a lot dumber.
Frances sternhagen.
Hello.
It's the drug.
You just won a prize.
The part originally was written for a man.
I said, I want to cast a woman
and make no change
in the script.
Almost everybody here doesn't
have both oars in the water,
as far as I'm concerned.
Everything she said
was a little different,
everything she said was her way.
There hasn't been so much excitement in
this heap for some time.
When it came to outland,
the idea of a mining conglomerate
seemed feasible to me.
I wanted you to see the kind
of hostility of the environment
and who are the people
who would be doing it.
And why would they be doing it.
I never won an Oscar, except one
of the things that I wanted
more than anything else was to do a film
that would be parodied in mad magazine.
And they did outland in mad magazine.
I was thrilled, to me the
highest compliment I could be paid.
You and I know that when anybody says
which it's the best Superman,
they say ii.
You haven't seen the best part.
Superman ii. The adventure continues.
Superman ii remains about truth,
justice and the American way.
There is no doubt about that.
It is also about the villains coming back
and maybe getting Superman,
and that's the best part.
Superman!
There is no question about the
fact that Christopher reeve
embodied Superman,
I just think he was extraordinary.
I believe this is your floor.
He was a little dorky.
He was more like Clark Kent than Superman.
Terence stamp remains
the sexiest man on earth.
Kneel before Zod.
Jack looked like Jack,
all the time, I hasten to add.
We moved a certain way
and we moved with a fluidity.
Three villains flying along,
they'd got the tracks
up in the roof like
railway tracks up there.
Somebody hadn't quite worked out
that when you go round a corner,
the momentum swings you out.
So the three of us start off very well,
then we go round a corner and then we all
get tangled up together and there we hang.
Stepping on the moon,
it was the most extraordinary set.
What kind of a creature are you?
Just a man.
A man?
Do you know that scene where
I kick the astronaut in the groin?
When I went to Japan to promote the film,
they cut that scene
because it was too violent.
A woman kicking a man like that
just doesn't do, does it?
Margot kidder
absolutely made contact
when she had to clip me
because we tried it a few times
and it just didn't look too real.
You're a real pain in the neck!
She got me so much that
I went over the edge.
It's like, “got the shot,
moving on, thank you very much."
We weren't killed off,
we just disappeared, if you like.
To be able to come back.
There was definitely
speculation about that.
Superman I and ii, we shot
them back to back.
With Richard donner,
who we all adored.
We took a break because at a certain point
we'd shot so much of Superman ll,
they needed to concentrate
on Superman I.
Of course they did.
I literally got back on the set
and it was Richard Lester.
To reshoot the same sequence
with two incredibly different directors
was the best experience of my life.
Consequently, when
it came to selling
Superman ii, it was me.
Warner brothers put me through
my paces to see if I could
talk about the film
without spilling the beans.
The fact that they changed directors
was just something we never talked
about in the marketing of the film.
That was a more naive period
where people weren't
so into all the nuances of filmmaking.
At the beginning, it was marvelous
and glorious, and we all loved each other.
By the end, it was just
we'd all had enough, I think.
I often think of the enormity
of certainly the impact of Superman.
Everybody has seen Superman.
Around the world,
whether it be on television,
whatever it is, it's a love fest.
Before we lived in a dystopian reality,
I really enjoyed
dystopian science fiction.
John carpenter's escape
from New York.
The greatest escape of them all
is about to blow the future apart.
Escape from New York
actually started as John carpenter's
first screenplay out of film school.
After he had done a few, studio
really wanted to work with him
and said, basically, what do you got?
And he went to the closet,
brought out the script.
They loved the idea.
He called me.
He said, "I really need another mind
here to help me get through this
and make sense of it."
So I think it was a
valuable collaboration.
You go in, find the president,
bring him out in 24 hours,
and you're a free man.
24 hours, huh?
Escape from New York was the
biggest movie I'd made up to that time.
It was basically the same crew
and some of the same cast
I'd worked with before,
so it was fun to do.
It was hard work trying
to keep everything light
if we can.
It was like a huge family
working with actors that he loves
both personally and professionally.
He knows that he can get the performance
out of them that he wants.
And they have much more fun working
if you're, you know, everything
is calm, and here we go.
St. Louis, which was the
beginning of the shoot.
They shot much of the exterior material.
St. Louis at the time
looked like post-apocalyptical,
you know, United States.
You didn't have to do a
lot of window dressing.
Nothing was done in New York
other than being on Liberty island.
Kurt was always known
and grew up as a Disney kid,
but John can see into
what the potential is in people.
I recognized Kurt early on
when we did Elvis.
This guy's got it.
He really has it.
Just knowing Kurt, you know
he has the potential for doing something
that's a little darker and physical.
Love the character of Maggie.
Balls out chick, you know,
and I was used to playing
that kind of role.
You're plissken?
I heard you were dead.
I think her entire moral character
is exhibited in the last scene,
where she reaches
out her hand to snake for the gun
and she fires at the Duke.
Thatjust said everything
to me about her.
Escape from New York
really, its philosophical bent was
it was a nihilist film.
It had a nihilist character
it had a nihilist ending,
but it was also done in a way
that was tongue in cheek.
We're going to go far in this
direction and have fun with it.
Don't kill yourself
after you see this film.
You're going to kill
me now, snake?
I'm too tired.
Maybe later.
If you want to know who would win
a fight between snake plissken,
Jack Burton or rj macready, snake
plissken would win the fight
hands down.
He's a bad ass, that's why.
A universe of magic.
Heavy metal.
Heavy metal,
the movie, was a very interesting
experience for young, 14 year old me.
Yeah, my worldview shifted
after watching that film.
I was a fan of the magazine,
a fan of the art,
fan of the storytelling.
It played into my interests
in a very natural way.
I said, "it would be great
as an animated film."
My powers continue.
It showed you the possibility of animation
and sci fi and more sophisticated ideas.
Beautiful, but it's also really subversive
and countercultural.
I told you, I'm an American citizen.
I just lost my papers or something.
Goddamn legal aliens.
The source material,
the heavy metal stories
really in themselves
had a kind of level of explicitness
that was freeing,
I think, for the artists.
I saw that as something that was quite fun
and delicious.
I'm afraid that I'll come home one
day and find you screwing the toaster.
You'll just have to trust me.
Gerald potterton was a really fine
animation director in Canada.
I sort of enlisted him as kind of a
central filmmaking group
to tell this story.
Len blum and Dan goldberg
who I had worked
with on meatballs,
they came up with that sort of magical
sort of deadly green ball from outer space
as a way of sort of linking
the stories together.
Someone always finds me.
My favorite sequence in heavy
metal is den.
Can I slit his throat,
your majesty?
Yes.
I liked the heavy metal magazine.
It's an actually an adept
recreation of that vibe.
And if I refuse?
If you refuse, you die.
She dies. Everybody dies.
Sounded reasonable to me.
The 8-1? Bomber that crashes on
the island with the zombies,
that's probably my favorite individual
vignette from the film.
Nose dive!
The two space pilots
that get high on the space,
cocaine is also a funny one.
Taarna,
as a huge moebius fan, I wanted to
sort of give him all due respect.
Maybe she wants to fight.
I want her dead!!!
What I remember
about heavy metal
is the music in that film.
All of the bands
that have a song in that film,
I have cranked that soundtrack
so many times over the years.
I wore out so many cassette tapes.
Yeah, the future is now pretty
well illustrated by musk
sticking a Tesla into space, like
the opening of the heavy metal movie.
I wish we could have finished it
in a slightly more complete way, I mean,
we were working under the gun in terms
of timetable, in terms of budget,
but I'm still quite taken
by how still effective it was.
I think we were just
really ahead of the curve
in all sorts of ways.
Okay, sucker. Hand over your cash!
Now!
One of the ways
you can say whether a film
has succeeded or failed
is can you imagine
a life for the characters
and the movie itself
beyond the frame you've seen.
World building became enormously
important during '803 science fiction.
So you have concept design
and production design.
You have to go and build interiors,
build these kind of planets
physically on sets, and
creating locations that work.
You have concept designed around
props and imagined future technology.
Present day idea is extrapolated, and this
thing goes on into, of course, costume,
how do spaceships
move and travel in the future.
It's the natural evolution
of a storyteller to think beyond
the things that inspire them,
imagining the possibilities
of taking it to the next step.
For directors like Spielberg
and Cameron and Ridley Scott,
this became almost a challenge
to create an accurate picture
of the future in different ways.
Make you know, a straightfonnard
film extraordinary.
Something's there.
I love the worlds that existed
in all of these science fiction movies,
and I wanted to explore
them as fully as I could.
Very satisfying to work
on pictures like that
where you bring a whole universe
to life for a film audience.
Usually when I'm hired,
nobody else is hired
except for the director,
and we start discussing the script and I
hire illustrators and storyboard artists.
We start to develop
a look for the picture,
which is very important
because he can see his vision now
of what this picture is and
the studio, they start to see,
"wow, this is where our 100 million
dollars is going to go.
We're going to have
that". And they get excited.
Something that is, of course,
hugely important in science fiction
because it doesn't exist anywhere
around us, are the visual
designers, the guys that decide,
what the buildings, what the landscape
should look like, the objects,
the spaceships, the creatures.
It's all choices.
Syd mead, Ron Cobb, Ralph mcquarrie,
just the visionaries of science fiction,
and they have dreamt up
so many iconic things.
They're quite instrumental
in bringing life to a lot of
what goes on on the screen.
In science fiction, a lot of the things
that you're going to see
are visual effects, those things don't
exist in reality, you know,
warp drives and spinners.
So we have to invent
sounds that don't exist in reality.
My job is to ensure that you hear
everything that you do see.
Did you see that?!
It's really
the sound underneath it
coming up out of the floor
and shaking you to your core.
That's all encompassed in this term
I call universe building.
I need to create the Sonic universe
that we take for granted,
such that when you go to the cinema,
you feel as though you're
in a believable environment,
even if it's in an unbelievable context.
The genius of star wars,
is it just imbued character
into everything, into its planets,
into cities, into its characters,
obviously, nothing star wars touched
didn't involve character and feel.
So the falcon, which is the heart
of all great movie spaceships,
became an extension of Han Solo.
She may not look like much,
but she's go it where it counts, kid.
I've made a lot of special
modifications myself.
And then you have the complete opposite
end with films like mad Max
and their version
of spacecraft is a vehicle.
Weapons.
The classic ones in star wars
are the blaster versus the lightsaber,
the lightsaber represents
the old order of kind of grace
from the past.
An elegant weapon
for a more civilized age.
Then you have James Cameron,
you know, he's about the
physicality of armament.
And you go to something like Star Trek.
It's a cleaner universe,
and all the uniforms are kind of coded
by rank, so it's much more about
a military organization.
Costumes, of course, are a great
ingredient of science fiction.
I mean, the opportunity they give
to costume designers to imagine
the impossible, a wonderful
opportunity to be creative.
None of the work that any of
us do is the end result.
None of it.
It all is part of a process
and we're all in this together.
These brilliant filmmakers
give us amazing, astonishing work,
but our brains will build much more
than they can possibly do,
and that's what they should be doing.
They're kind of lighting a match to a
touch paper and going, okay, off you go.
You know, dream up the
other elements of this world.
Imagine for yourselves
what these planets are like.
They are the things that stay with you.
What's going on on
the other side of the door?
If you're a movie geek
and you don't understand
the significance of 1982, you have
to turn in your movie nerd card.
The post-apocalyptic genre
is pretty much defined by
the mad Max movies.
The road warrior.
A kind of harsher, cooler
vision of science fiction,
it's like a western.
Barren world where petrol
is the only commodity.
Just walk away.
Give me your pump,
the oil, the gasoline,
and the whole compound.
They did what they needed
to do to survive.
They were working
in a genre of picture called
the exploitation picture.
That's how they got funded.
Action, adventure,
exploding cars, violence,
mayhem and the low budget seemed
to be a challenge rather than an obstacle.
I am really attracted to that sort
of bootstrapping kind of storytelling.
Good dog. Nice doggy.
George Miller is an amazing director.
George had built a universe,
this dystopian future
that mad Max lived within.
You want to get out of here?
You talk to me.
George had flashed it all out.
It's not just a matter of going out
and shooting a lot of cars being flipped
and people dressed up strangely
and mohawk bikers running
round and screaming.
There was a definite
heart to everything that George
did in that movie.
George Miller gave me all
the tools that I needed
to be wez, and I'm
nothing like that character.
I mean, there's no way in god's
earth that I can ever be wez.
You! You can run
but you can't hide!
They always used to say to me,
“just do it at 150%, we can
bring it down to 100."
What he wanted was this punk
rock version of science fiction.
It's unthinkable that a
mad Max film would do what
a fast and furious film does
and just throw in cgi.
Now they worry about us knowing
the stunts we've done for real
and that kind of sense of
violence that came with that.
We didn't use any
special effects of that one
that was in camera.
Safety was a Paramount concern.
The vehicle I'm climbing onto,
which has 16 wheels,
is going to run over me if I slip.
One of the stunt guys that was
on it would just grab me.
For a decade, that was
all about the future
and tech and computers and sci fi.
It's stripped all of that away.
It's very prescient if you look at where
we're going with the climate crisis.
If you look at where we're going
with the climate crisis and how tribalism
is sort of already taking root
and people are picking sides.
You have defied me!
You will know the vengeance of
the lord humungus!
Road warrior was a warning
of where we were headed.
They weren't just doing a film,
they were out there
showing people the dysfunction
that we were headed for.
That we're there.
When star wars came out,
my dad was saying, "I think we're going
to get a call from Paramount
and they're going to want us back.
Wait and see."
To dad, the motion picture was a
disappointing film on a number of levels.
Star Trek is not as visionary as 2001.
It's not as exuberant as star wars.
Most of the industry thought that
after the poor reception of the first star
trek film, that was going to be pretty
much the end of the franchise.
It wasn't until the Nick meyer showed
up, that things got back on track.
Star Trek ll
the wrath of Khan
a lot of my choices
were kind of in reaction to
Star Trek the motion picture,
I wanted things to be more
confined, more submarine like.
Torpedo's ready, sir.
Star Trek ii was classic storytelling.
You had a wonderful actor,
Ricardo montalban, Khan.
Why?
Yes, he was a little bit over the top.
But it called for that.
And, you know, bill is no slouch
when it comes
to emoting.
Khan!!!
They were a great combination.
The unstoppable force
and the immovable object.
They're locking phasers.
Raise shields. Fire!
Higher!
And that's what you want.
You want that kind of friction.
Higher.
They were always at each other's throats.
With terrific character
building and terrific storytelling.
I didn't think we could do better.
And who do we have here?
Midshipman first class. Peter
Preston, engineer's mate, sir!
It was the most tension thick
set I've ever been on.
It was a big film because of
the risk Paramount was taking,
even doing the second film
given how the first one was received.
As a matter of cosmic history,
it has always been easier
to destroy than to create.
Bill was always acting like kirk.
He paraded around the set.
He seemed pompous all the time, and
I just realized that he was just trying
to stay in character, and I think Leonard
was doing very much the same thing.
Any chance to go
aboard the enterprise.
George takei was my favorite.
Every single time George was finished
shooting, the door would burst open.
All of a sudden we would hear
"sulu got his close up today.“
and posture like - like a superhero,
"sulu looked pensively to the right today",
creating some levity on the set, which was
desperately, desperately, desperately
needed.
I need warp speed in three
minutes or we're all dead.
Finding out that Spock actually
does die was ovennhelming.
I thought they can't do this.
They can't do this.
But before the film came out,
everybody knew
that Spock was going to die.
We started getting threats about
"if Spock dies, you die."
This is all before the Internet,
so how people heard about this
I have no idea.
The idea of this demise of Spock,
which dad just thought was
an interesting idea dramatically,
he wasn't even thinking
about the repercussions.
They thought that maybe this
was going to be the last film.
They're going to be two films
and then be done with the franchise.
Live long, and prosper.
He had
much misgivings after that and regret.
Oh, by the end, it was like, whoa.
Spock is really going to be dead.
And I said,
"hell yeah, he's got to be dead.
Othennise, we've taken advantage
of thousands of people for whom
this is really important stuff.
And we're going to say at the end
'oh folks, it was just a dry hustle.'"
that's terrible.
And I fought it tooth and nail,
that coffin on the planet,
and I think I was probably wrong.
Death was never really death,
it was always one eye on the box office
in the next incarnation of it.
I always kind of looked
down my nose at that.
There's plenty of room.
They asked me if I wanted
to do Star Trek ill.
And I said, "what is that
going to be about?"
And they said, "well, it's about,
you know, Spock comes back", I go
"resurrection.
I don't think I know
how to do resurrection."
So I didn't do it.
There was a very personal,
intimate nature to a lot of the
very grandiose storytelling
in the '803, and it was that contrast
that often made them work.
A lot of that can be
attributed to Spielberg.
Steven Spielberg's et.
The extra terrestrial.
E.t., especially when
you're a child, is such
a roller coaster because you go through
so many different emotions.
Can you say e.T.?
Definitely a tear jerker.
Eliot.
When he is hugging
him and saying
goodbye, I'm crying, I'm crying.
I cry every time I see it, every time.
This was supposed to be Steven's
little film in between
all his big blockbusters.
All of his films are actually
intensely personal films.
He grew up in a broken home.
His father left, his parents got divorced,
it had a very traumatic effect on him.
He's making personal films
about his own life,
just that the kind of
canvas is a bigger one.
Everything was changing
at that time within our
society, around the family.
I'm proud that I was able to portray
one of those four strong mothers.
Mommy, he can talk!
Of course he can talk. I'll be right back,
in 10 minutes. Stay there.
I felt like I was honoring my own mom.
Steven, in a lot of ways is a child.
That's why I think he responds
and understands the kids
so well.
Only little kids can see him.
Give me a break.
There are certain movies
that are just so raw and honest
in their interpretation of youth,
and the kid ensemble in e.T.
Is one of those.
E.t. Found home.
My god, he's talking now.
We used Reese's pieces
instead of M&M's, because
M&M's turned us down,
and said "we don't think
we want to be involved with an alien.“
oh my god.
Would you wanted to be the guy at M&M's
who turned down e.T.
Back in the '803, there were
these latchkey kids
where you were allowed to go
out and run through the forest.
"Back by sunset, darling."
Definitely a different time.
Suburbia,
your parents were not around
you, involved in your world.
The adults were these just these things
out there outside of the frame.
No TV.
The scene where Henry walks down
and is showing e.T. All the toys,
Steven said, "bring all your toys."
So those were all Henry's real toys.
I think jaws was probably placed in there.
The shark eats the fish.
Nobody eats the shark.
I distinctly
remember the first day
I walked onto the sound stage.
There was a connection.
Steven did the voice when we shot.
Drew was very young, she really couldn't
distinguish the difference
between reality and fantasy.
We would put et. In a corner
when he wasn't working well,
she would be over talking to him.
So Steven had two guys
whose job it was to at all times
be on e.T. Patrol so that
he could come alive and gertie
would still not have
to suspend that, that belief.
We have to shoot his death scene.
I stooped down and I said, "hi drew.
We're going to go shoot the scene
where e.T. Is dying,
but e.T. Is just acting like
we're acting, right?
He's not really dying."
She goes, "I know, Dee.
Do you think I'm stupid?"
So I picked her up and we walked in.
She took one look at e.T,
and went, "he's dying!"
Steven's going, "roll it, roll it."
Clear!
We're losing him!
The message of the film itself
was all about love
and friendship and connection.
It surpasses our brains
and goes straight to our heart.
The audience was ready for it.
The world was ready for it.
And literally, it's our generation's
wizard of oz.
Right
here.
The thing about blade runner
that is so powerful for me
is just the visual storytelling.
The production design,
the cinematography,
the choreography is so outstanding,
it's so beautiful.
It looks really cool,
but it is everything we
have warned you against.
A new life awaits you
in the off-world colonies.
Ridley Scott's brother,
frank, had died, and one of the reasons
Ridley Scott made blade runner
because he was trying to work
his grief out, the only way he knew
which was making a film.
So it was going to be imbued with
that darkness.
Replicants are like any other machine.
They're either a benefit or a hazard.
If they're a benefit it's not my problem.
It's about our own life spans.
You were made as well
as we could make you.
But not to last.
The light that burns twice
as bright, burns half as long.
If we create a slave race,
does that make us god,
what is our moral duty to that?
What makes us human? Is it memory?
Incredibly detailed
themes about existence.
How can it not know what it is?
Commerce is our goal here at Tyrell. 'More
human than human' is our motto.
I love the replicants.
I think, Sebastian,
therefore I am.
Because they're the most
human characters in the film.
They've got the most life to them,
and it's kind of an irony.
My birthday is April 10, 2017.
How long do I live?
Four years.
Something is very human about
them, self-preservation,
wanting to matter,
beyond the role as the slave
or as a second class citizen,
I mean, this really is
anecdotal.
You think I'm a replicant, don't you?
I felt that my character, Rachel,
was the heart and soul of that picture.
You play beautifully.
Walking in to do blade runner,
I thought I was going to meet
Han Solo. Harrison could be funny
on a dime if he wanted to be.
But he doesn't take prisoners.
He say you blade runner.
Tell him I'm eating.
Rediker had a certain
sort of dynamo personality,
and the character did as well,
and one of my favorite lines is after
he gets hit in the head, he goes,
"that's the spirit!" You know.
That's the spirit!
And he made it very iconic.
Quite an experience to
live in fear, isn't it?
I said to Ridley, why the unicorn?
And he says, “well,
I think I'm going to make another movie
after this about unicorns.
And I don't think this character is
really human and I think he's not human."
And I went, "really?"
I don't think they ended up
making that the case because I don't think
the executives felt that you could have
a leading man that wasn't human.
I remember seeing blade
runner at a theater
thinking to myself, my god,
what is that narration?
It's horrible.
They don't advertise for killers in the
newspaper. That was my profession.
Ex-cop.
It looked like somebody had
fooled around with it
other than a director.
Replicants weren't
supposed to have feelings.
Neither were blade runners.
Ridley Scott shared with me
the studio was so concerned
that no one was going to know
what kind of movie they
were watching, that they insisted
that he put the narration
up at the beginning.
This is what he said to me.
He and Harrison conspired with each other
to make it the worst piece of narration
they could possibly record
in order to get the studio to say,
"we can't even use this,
it's just so awful."
The report would be 'routine
retirement of a replicant'.
Which didn't make me feel any bettter
about shooting a woman in the back.
But they ended up using it.
The precedent hadn't been set
for a film like blade runner.
I think that was
probably ahead of its time.
That's sort of the brilliant
part about Ridley,
he's constantly thinking and imagining
and gripping things up in his mind,
and that's what makes him
the artist that he is.
His brain went there.
Like
tears
in rain.
The good guys always win!
Even in the '803.
Ace hunter,
who I played was just
the ultimate good guy.
Hal needham always said it's very simple.
It's the good guys against the bad guys.
The original script was more like
a real shoot em up, gi. Joe,
you know, slaughter the
enemy kind of movie.
And hal said, "no, no, I don't
want to do that."
You can't go up against blade
runner with megaforce
and think that you're going to
have that same audience.
You know, our audience was
twelve year olds.
Mattel toys was very influential in
terms of how these vehicles
would be designed, colors and shapes.
Primary objective, is to trick
guerera to cross the border,
bringing him in your territory at
a predetermined time and place.
Hal needham,
his wife saw me in pirates
of penzance on stage,
and she went home and said to hal,
“I've got your ace hunter right here."
When they offered me the part,
we had to make ace hunter
look exactly like the pirate king
in the pirates of penzance,
from the headband to the
beard to the hair, this sort of swagger
and slightly over-the-top superhero
attitude which I like to call overacting.
The ace hunter
outfits and all of the outfits
were designed by mattel toys.
There wasn't a costume
designer on this movie,
which is so totally unusual.
Spandex, right?
I think I was stoned most of the time,
if you want to know the truth.
And then the ad would come
tap me on the shoulder and say,
"oh, listen, we need you in an hour."
Just pour me in the outfit.
My guys so international in their makeup.
All the characters in megaforce
were one dimensional characters.
And that's part of the fun of it,
because that's what makes it
that sort of cartoon.
But I'll tell you son, we did
raise some kind of hell!
Edward mulhare, probably better
known aftennards for knight rider,
putting it together that international
fighting for his secretively.
He probably didn't pay his taxes.
And persis khambatta played Zara.
It's too bad that she
wasn't prettier. Huh?
Jesus, she was gorgeous
and she had her hair.
Kirk unit.
I always thought
we were going to make
a megaforce ii and a megaforce III.
When megaforce I took a dump,
we never got to the point of that.
Megaforce deeds, not words I think was
going to be the name of the second one.
The script is still out there somewhere.
When anybody mentions megaforce,
they just make fun of it.
You never make a movie thinking
it's going to be a cult movie.
Who even knew about cult movies
when we were doing
rocky horror picture show?
It's not Hamlet, for god sakes.
Tron
he is a programmer,
but he gets sucked into this world
and ends up taking the whole system down.
Woo hoo. Little guy.
What a concept.
What if we went down in there
and it was actually a world?
I auditioned for star wars.
I didn't get that one.
I looked at this and I said, well, it
kind of looks like space. Okay.
I felt a part of a pioneering effort.
And Steven lisberger, the creator
of this, I call him Yoda.
Everything was hanging on this.
That's a lot of responsibility.
We could miserably fail.
Or we could wildly succeed.
If you look at the performances
by Jeff Bridges, Bruce boxleitner,
Cindy Morgan, who had to
act in front of nothing.
So what am I looking at?
Okay, you're looking at the solar sailer.
Here's a sketch.
We wore hockey
helmets and motocross shoulder pads.
We were wearing what a male
ballet dancer would wear.
It was probably the early
thong, male thong.
Tron was a warrior.
He dominated the game grid.
Who's that guy?
That's tron. He fights
for the users.
I would get my frisbee
and we'd play with our discs like
just the battles and stuff and
pretend I had a light cycle.
They loved the light cycles.
I never saw it.
It was a stick in front
of me with a crossbar.
We were all standing there
and they kind of
we bent over.
And that was it.
And I did the whole chase like that.
Finish the game!
David Warner, who played the villain sark,
who I had to have my final big battle
with, was not a physical guy.
So he had to be doubled
through most of it.
People were encouraged
to put what they call easter eggs.
One of the compositors
had put in pac-man.
We loved it.
The solar sailer
going over the landscape
and seeing the outline of Mickey mouse.
What a great idea.
Alan
where did you hear that name?
Well, that's your name, isn't it?
Name of my user.
There's a theological element
to tron from the perspective
of the programs inside the
computer, and that question is,
are the users real?
The user even wrote you!
No one user wrote me. I'm worth
millions of their man-years.
Should we believe in the users
and use it to resist the oppression
of the master control program?
It becomes this meditation
on faith, where science
and theology collide.
If you are a user.
And everything you've done has
been according to the plan, right?
You wish.
When I saw the final product,
I felt like a proud father.
And it was basically f you
to the rest of Hollywood.
You thought we couldn't do it?
Yeah.
Well, how do you like us now?
For those kids
in all those arcades throughout
the country, in the world,
they got it, and I knew then
that we had a revolutionary thing.
It's not going to be appreciated
now, but it will be.
End of line.
The moviegoing experience
became something that started way before
you could actually go see the movie,
a movie is a productjust
like Coca-Cola is a product.
I did it again.
Catch the wave. Coke.
It's putting the name in your head
so that you will think about it
and feel interested in it.
You have to remember
if it's at all possible, that in the 1980s
there was no such thing as the Internet.
What we knew of future films
was given to us by the lobby of the cinema
where we were currently
going to see a film.
And it was a thrilling thing.
There was that little moment
where you looked at the poster
and you started to make the film
in your head as you looked at it.
All we had to go on was the title,
the tagline and the imagery.
I remember that first great image
from star wars: Luke holding
the lightsabers evocative of medieval,
whether it's the Tom young version
or the hildebrandt brothers version.
It was such a powerful
image, and still is.
Back in those days,
movie posters were
legitimate works of art.
Now we know them.
You know, it's
kind of great range of artists.
Bob peak who did all the Star Trek
posters, drew struzan,
who's now a legend.
And Robert mcginnis
and John purkey and others.
It's a great range of artists
who have become cult
figures and the whole idea of
science fiction poster art
has become a collectible
and desirable in its own right.
Brilliant marketing,
the Michelangelo picture
has so much meaning to us.
I thought it was a brilliant
representation of that.
Tron was a poster
that was very important to me.
Great visual idea.
The thing had a fabulous poster.
For me, really, the next level
in terms of poster art is the vhs box,
because when you went into into
video stores, that's what you
were using to make your choices.
A movie that had been playing
to crickets in theaters
was now a movie that people thought,
'oh, this must have been a big hit.'
I think partly because of the appeal of
what was on the box. That transformed
what people remember about
the success of these pictures.
What a distance!
If you weren't alive in the '803,
you will never know the unbelievable
high stakes selection
process at the video store.
You kind of flipped it around and looked
at some of the words in the background
and read maybe a few of them and looked
at some of the quotes, "two thumbs up
Roger ebert", you know?
But it was the image on the front
that made you excited and our hunger
not only to know
about the worlds of the film,
but also to know about how they made
the worlds of the film began to grow.
The audience was
very intelligent, and I said,
"I think we can do a magazine
that will target people like me
that have been a science fiction fan
since I was a kid that really covered
all the stuff that I love."
Geeks grew not out of necessarily
wanting to be Luke Skywalker, but
because they wanted to be George Lucas.
They wanted to become filmmakers,
and they wanted to understand film
as much about the story it told.
But the story that went on behind
the scenes as well, and this expanded
across the 19803.
I told George Lucas, when I met him,
"your movie made my magazine a success
because when it came out,
suddenly the whole audience
for science fiction came alive.
They want to know
facts, information, knowledge.
That's what we were giving them."
The starlog, cinefantastique,
cinefex is very much hard
core making of.
Premiere.
Then in 1989 in britain, empire was born,
which I went on to work for.
One of the things I did at lucasfilm
was I started and oversaw
the first few years of the official
star wars fan club, and for far less
money than it cost us to operate,
you could join and we sent out
a membership kit with an exclusive poster
and photographs and stuff, and a quarterly
newsletter called bantha tracks.
We wanted to keep fans
interested and happy.
Fandom developed around these magazines.
We created a place for the reader to come
and pour out their geekdom
and be amongst like minded people.
There was a point in the '803 when the
marketing and the product placement
and the sort of eye towards what
these films were going to do beyond
when you left, the theater would
sometimes overtake the movie themselves.
Don't you worry.
Suddenly, you've got
songs from movies
that are on billboard charts.
Ray Parker Jr. from ghostbusters,
that was so fantastic.
If there's something strange
in your neighborhood
mtv, they would take a
song from the movie
and make a video,
and it made it really fun.
- Who you gonna call?
- Ghostbusters!
You associated
all those things together
and then you wanted to see the movie.
It was kind of incredible marketing.
Look at the stereo.
No, no, no, don't touch it.
It's not a stereo, it's -
what is it?
And this is how films grew in our heads.
It was a way of enticing you
in. These days, they're much more
like an accompaniment
of the whole hype machine.
But we didn't know what hype was.
I mean, we experienced it without
putting a name on it back in the '80s
so that's all part of our
advertising and publicity.
It just makes sense.
Who's going to want to go see this movie?
Let's let them know about it.
I'd buy that for a dollar!
Spacehunter
adventures in the forbidden zone
in 3-d
so the first big 3-d science fiction
movie of the '80s was spacehunter
adventures in the forbidden zone.
For some reason, all of these '803
3-d sci fi movies have
really long, wordy titles.
I remember seeing a lot of these
'8033-d movies in the theater.
I was their target audience.
I was the one who sort of pitched
doing it in 3-d.
I thought the title was right.
It is the kind of science
fiction exploitation movie
that was popular at the time.
Three women have crashed
landed on this planet
and they get captured.
Michael Ironside
is the villain in this film,
his role is the over dog.
I imagine he hated the makeup process,
but enjoyed the scenery eating.
Ah, you can't hurt me.
But I can hurt you.
Peter Strauss plays the pilot,
the Han Solo knockoff character.
Whatever you say, Princess.
Molly ringwald, who at this point in
time is very pre-brat pack plays
Niki, a sort of an urchin pain
in the butt character.
What the hell are you?
What do you think I am, you
scrawny earthbag? I'm a woman!
A pre ghostbusters, Ernie
Hudson is in this movie
as a rival smuggler slash
pilot, opportunistic guy, and they end up
one up in each other through the film
before coming together.
Just look at it.
Look at what you did!
It's ruined!
There's a lot of location shooting,
some very impressive landscapes.
They really make it look bigger
than it has any right to be.
John LaFleur was the young
Canadian filmmaker
that sort of invented this story
initially, but he had very
little film experience.
He fell behind very quickly
and we had to make a change
in our filmmakers and
we found lamont Johnson.
His concept was to try to make it
as realistic as possible
and sort of didn't take
advantage of the fun of it.
I felt that spacehunter was
a little bit of a lost
opportunity finally, given the cast and
the concept and the re-use of native 3-d.
Using two cameras,
using two projectors to show it
kind of impossible
from a commercial standpoint
in terms of exhibition.
But it really looked beautiful
when you could see it
in its original form.
Lift the gates! Begin!
Star wars
had this wonderful level of authenticity.
Just required a lot less
of that suspension of disbelief.
That was a real revolution
in storytelling.
What cinema could do and
storytelling could do,
and the connection with the audience
can do, was absolutely at its height.
I think that even for Lucas, the
expectation became unattainably high.
There's stuff in jedi
that is absolutely masterful
that I have really fond memories of.
Get alongside that one.
The chase through the forest,
which is like an epic piece of cinema.
I love that sequence so much.
I did go see return of the jedi
23 times in the theater.
The sarlacc pit and jabba's
is going to throw them all in there,
but Luke's got the plan with r2.
You'd think that there would have been
this big battle with Boba Fett
and someone and han, right?
He just gets like accidentally rocket
packed into the side of jabba's
big space cruiser.
And becomes a burp joke.
Boba Fett
first showed up in the star wars
holiday special in the animated sequence.
He was supposed to be the main villain
in the movie that turned out
to be called return of the jedi.
It was all going to be about
chasing boba, rescuing Han Solo.
But during the making
of empire, George decided
he did not want to make
more star wars movies.
I was sitting with him
in a sound mixing room,
and he told me that he'd made
this decision and was going to end,
and that's why he was going
to condense the third trilogy
and the redemption of Darth Vader
into return of the jedi.
And then, boba
he went from going to be a big star
to an afterthought.
When we came onto the set,
they had these shirts
that said blue harvest.
Sort of like just a distraction
for the local people that they wouldn't
find out that we were
doing a star wars movie
the first time we go out to dinner
and Carrie Fisher, Mark Hamill, my father,
you know, Harrison Ford,
are having dinner together.
They're going to figure it out real quick.
Corey and I have always
been very, very close.
He traveled a lot with
me whenever I did movies,
stood in for me.
The opportunity to be
a part of the star wars
franchise was - couldn't overlook that.
When he fell into the pit,
han is trying to shoot
the tentacle off of his leg.
An explosive charge went
off and went into his foot.
And burned his foot,
so they put me in lando's
outfit, they hung me over the side.
They didn't tell me all these
explosions were going to happen.
I guess they got a
genuine reaction out of me.
And then they needed someone
to put on klaatu's mask.
He was just a random creature.
He was going to run towards
Skywalker, get into a quick skirmish,
and I couldn't see a thing.
It was sort of like a random
last minute thing.
And here I am, an action figure.
The big battle at the end,
the death star and then everyone
on endor waiting for, you know, han
will get that shield down,
we got to give him more time.
Go Billy Dee.
We've got to give him more time.
I did seven stunts
for seven different ewoks.
Every time Dave tomlin,
who was the first assistant director
goes, “deep get into the suit.”
I said, "but I just got killed"
he said, "got to do another one."
When I watched jedi, I was like this.
Just leaning fonnard, and I think the true
moviegoers posture, right, like that.
So what we have here
is a linking of almost a child's
imagination with all the technology
at the command of a movie maker.
These movies take us from childhood
into an era where we're growing up.
We're changing,
they're indelibly connected.
It was this huge part of my life.
We certainly never thought
we were going to get
any more of these movies.
What I think George Lucas did
amazingly was to show that it was possible
to execute these grand visions
with a level of believability
that was something
we haven't really seen before.
There are a lot of filmmakers
that were really inspired
and freed by what George
had done on star wars.
You got immersed into it and you
believed it and that was really wonderful.
Is this a game or is it real?
Wargames
what happens when you play a
thermonuclear war as a game,
but it actually connects to NORAD?
I love the what if of it.
I have seven, correction, eight, that's
eight redbirds two degrees past...
There was another film
before wargames, colossus.
The good guys, us have these
supercomputers, and the bad guys,
the Russians have these
supercomputers and they connected.
So all of a sudden,
this artificial intelligence started
to make decisions for us because
we're so immature and violent
and all that.
We will work together. Unwillingly at
first on your part. But that will pass.
But that will pass.
What a lot of these movies
were doing is trying to
hew as closely as they could
to things that might actually happen
and then play them out.
In the most frightening way
that they can think of.
They wanted it to look and feel real.
The whopper has only fought
world war ii! As a game
time and time again.
Wargames, it's a really
smart little movie.
What it took was the growing
fascination in the early 1980s
with computers, the home
computer became a thing.
They barely had 10k in them at the time,
but they were the most wonderful
things in the universe.
You're really in to computers, huh?
Yeah.
You could dial into a computer
and see stuff you weren't supposed to see.
Oh, oh yes.
What are you doing?
I'm changing your biology grade.
No, I don't want you to do that,
you're going to bet me in trouble.
Nobody can find out.
Forbidden knowledge, bring that on.
He was a great geek kid, Matthew
Broderick. The kid at home
can through the phone line, no less,
link up to some giant mainframe
that operates all of the
nuclear weapons in america.
This is kind of feasible
somehow in our brains.
This is what computers do.
And he could be starting world war III.
Shall we play a game?
How about global thermonuclear war?
Josh was trying to find the right code
so he could launch the missiles himself.
It's really suspenseful.
They're trying to divine
how to beat this supercomputer
at its own game.
Come on.
Learn, goddamn it!
It was science out of control film
but it keyed in to that permanent
fear that was going on.
Normal kids and nuclear threat.
I think I auditioned for
wargames about six times.
The original script was much
darker and much more scary,
and the guy was more of an isolated
kind of loner who worked at radioshack.
Wargames scared people so much
that there were actual computer
hackers who were put in jail.
Kevin mitnick was put in jail
and not given access to a payphone
because some idiot
senator believed that he could,
using his voice and a pay phone,
launch a nuclear missile.
You can watch wargames today,
particularly today,
as the nation is being hacked
by Russian operatives every 25 seconds.
And that movie don't seem silly at all.
How about a nice game of chess?
The Superman movies
are absolutely special to me.
Christopher reeve
was so phenomena! In the part.
Every time a franchise tries
to carry the story on, it's fraught with
difficulty.
This time is going to be
the best time of all.
Superman III encapsulates
so many different genres in one film.
Oh, I'm sorry.
It was a comedy vehicle for Richard pryor.
It was an action adventure Superman film.
It touched upon contemporary
technology of computers.
Getting down to business.
Richard had been in
some kind of hero with margot kidder.
Richard got a chance to do some
drama playing a returned Vietnam vet,
and he really was hoping
that he would get the chance
to do something like that
in Superman III.
But that's not what they
had in mind for him.
Robert Vaughn plays
the villain in the film
and puts Richard pryor's
character to work for him.
I asked you to kill a Superman.
And you're telling me you couldn't
even do that one simple thing.
Annette O'Toole playing Lana lang,
sort of replacing Lois Lane
as Superman, Clark's
love interest in the film.
Lois, say hello to Lana lang,
Smallville's newest
gift to Metropolis.
They were really trying to experiment
and dig deeper into who Superman was.
The part of the movie of going,
yeah, man, that's heavy, I don't
I don't know how you hold
the weight of the entire world
and everyone's fate in your hands,
as one being, I don't care how much
super strength you get from the sun.
Like, there's got to be a point
where you break, right?
Literally break in two.
We see
Superman, Chris reeve, Clark
Kent, battling his darker self.
Dealing with his demons, dealing
with who he is, dealing
with the weight of being Superman.
It was a very interesting
infusion of a different kind of
sci fi into a superhero movie.
A massive supercomputer at the end
that produces a cyborg,
which is absolutely terrifying.
The computer digging into her
arms, basically taking over
and turning her into a sort
of robot Android, it's
a very, very scary moment.
If you're young enough,
that could be pretty
damn traumatizing.
A lot of folks felt that the
real problem of the third
Superman film is that it did not live
inside the Superman universe at all.
Richard donner had wanted to
and worked on a script.
It involved brainiac and mxyzptlk
and all sorts of other characters
from the Superman universe,
including an introduction of Supergirl.
They came around to making
Richard and Superman buds.
They kind of give each other
five at the end of the movie,
which is very, very cool of Superman
back in the day. But the movie
itself just really didn't
come together.
Superman III,
not the best of the Superman films,
but it's better than Superman iv.
Strange invaders
I love the script of strange invaders.
I fell in love with it
the minute I read it.
Bill condon was the writer.
I always thought that bill
should have directed that film
and he had never directed.
So clever, so fun.
You know, a great send up of '50s
sci fi films, those little nods
to films were really
right there in the script.
I want you to look at them
and tell me if you see anything
that reminds you of the creature
you saw last night.
The picture of Spielberg, you know, is
this an alien, that's really my favorite.
I'm sorry, Mr. Bigelow, just a
little joke we have around here.
It's a film that doesn't take
itself too seriously.
According to what we have, no one
has lived in that town since 1958.
I do believe that for Paul le mat
it was probably the greatest challenge.
That particular role,
I don't think it was necessarily something
that he fell into very comfortably,
but we brought him along for the ride.
But I'm a scientist,
I know what I saw.
I loved my character.
You know, smoking the cigarets
and with a trashy newspaper.
Two-headed dogs, maybe.
But aliens are passe.
She's fun because there's
really no boundaries
with this character.
And there was an alien in my apartment
who gobbled up my soup.
It sounds ridiculous.
It was a kind of a no holds barred set.
I mean, there really wasn't
a lot of direction, if you will.
All of those wonderful actors
that were thrown together
really got it and had a good time with it.
Wallace Shawn, he was so excited
because he hadn't really done
any acting, and here he is,
this great playwright.
All he wanted to do was act,
he was so thrilled.
He said, "I can't believe I'm here
acting in this movie."
He was willing to do anything,
looking for the next shot, you know?
The funny thing
for me that Kenneth tobey had
a wild crush on Diana scannid
it was probably more fun than
it should have been.
That film, for me is a heartbreak,
because even though people like it
and enjoy it, I do feel like
I know what it could have been
with a different director.
It does have a very lighthearted tone
contrasted with really scary alien makeup.
It was done really well.
I remember being really impressed
and stunned when I saw it
because they had no budget on this film.
That does scare you,
but mostly you're really having fun.
In the early '803, there was
this wonderful explosion
of highly imaginative,
highly ambitious science fiction.
Suddenly, all sorts of stories
that were prohibitive because
technologically they weren't possible,
were suddenly possible now.
What star wars did,
both in terms of the visual effects,
but also George's approach
to the storytelling aspect of it.
Was it opened up the
door for genre films
that people had been
afraid to make before.
It's driven by the story,
the tools that we had were capable
of certain levels of finish,
and then it was an artistic
interpretation of how the illusion
was going to fit into the bigger
story, which was really critical.
There's something
about the real feel of the thing
and seeing it that brings you into it.
If you look at it as something that's
a visual effect and it doesn't quite work,
you're out of it.
When it works, it really does work.
The job of a visual effects
supervisor at ilm
is to be able to fulfill the
vision of the director.
Also, the effects supervisor
should contribute something to the film
if they can,
if it's not inappropriate, that possibly
the director didn't even know he could do.
Always, always
it starts with the idea
of the finished shot.
I'm motivated by the finished shot.
The shots that are magic
are the ones that have good
design embodied in them.
Star Trek ii the battle in the nebula
that was all shot in
cloud tanks here at ilm.
Beautiful taste is being exhibited
there with compositions of
where the ships are, the shot designs,
how they're lit, how the clouds swirl.
That's just some of the
most beautiful work
that ilm's ever done.
Miniatures were defined to
a certain extent
by how they had to be used.
If you look at the star destroyer, scale
notwithstanding, the model had to be
incredibly highly detailed
to stand up to that
kind of macro photography.
And when we started
blowing stuff up,
we had to build things
in a little bit larger scale
so that we could photograph them
at high speed photographic rates.
The bigger the model,
the more properly scaled the explosion
appeared to be.
Every optical composite
was a performance.
The way that we used to put
together a shot of a bunch of spaceships,
you didn't shoot them all at once.
You shot them one at a time.
There's a really remarkable shot
in return of the jedi,
and it's remarkable for the
huge number of separately
photographed spaceships
that are all in there.
It was intended to be a wow moment.
And it really accomplished that.
It's kind of ovennhelming when you think
about the mechanical complexity
of all those separately
photographed elements.
The thought process that goes
in to breaking down the barriers
that we have for this component,
that component, and how do you do this.
Those are strong.
We came up with this
system called go motion,
which is kind of a joke.
We didn't know what to call it, so we
called it the opposite of stop motion.
The first time we used go motion
was on the tauntaun and it totally worked.
It gave a blur to the thing.
That was effective.
Then on dragonslayer,
we developed it further.
In jedi with the two legged Walker,
when the ewoks rolled
the lodge down the hill,
go motion allowed me
to do that.
And that was really complicated.
You get into the zone.
You know, it's a form of
meditation to shut the world out
and be in the zone, you know,
and do it, do what it tells you.
I'm walking by and it's
shh, very quite.
It'd be Dennis muren at the camera.
Click.
And then all these hatches opened up
and out came Jon burge and Phil tippett,
and then move it ever so slightly
and then disappear down the hatch.
Click.
Matte painting,
as a way of adding on
to a set by painting,
for example, on a piece of glass.
Not only is it a budget
saving device,
it's an opportunity to enhance.
You're working on something
that is supposed to be
invisible.
Ghostbusters ii is the film I was
working on, where I said to myself
at the end of this, we've really reached
the end of traditional visual effects.
We can't keep doing it this way.
The ideas are getting bigger
than the toolbox we have.
Fortunately, in ilm, we had
a computer group
that had been working on computer
graphics and I had jumped into that.
I did young Sherlock Holmes
with them.
That really proved to me
that this is the future.
It needed more time for the technology,
both the hardware and the
software to get up to the level
where we can actually make
it a productive tool,
which we experimented again with
on the abyss, Jim Cameron's film.
Water weenie is the way
that we've respectfully
talked about.
Seeing things like tron
and last starfighter,
I thought computer graphics is coming.
It's not quite ready,
but something to keep your eye on.
The last starfighter used digital effects.
It was the first one to use it
for the entire film.
When you look back at it now,
there are some really some growing pains
and you can see where things
were not as effective
as it would have been if you got models.
You didn't know if it was going to work.
So it was a gamble.
It's a good example
of the beginnings of cgi.
My brother, Jeff, is a
visual effects supervisor,
and he worked on tron doing the bit.
So he was one of the first cgi
artists, and later
I worked with him on flight
of the navigator, where he helped me
design the spaceship morphing
and reflectance mapping.
This is the flying version of the ship.
And behind there is the
hovering version of the ship.
It was a maquette, meaning that
we took a computer and we touched it
all along here to create the wire frame
that was then used to wrap
the backgrounds on.
Shortly after the lucasfilm computer
division had been sold off as pixar,
we saw that there was a lot of value
in that tech and that this had a big
future in visual effects.
Star Trek iv, that hallucination
scene was just about
the first foray of the island
computer graphics department.
And that was always the carrot for me
and the promise back in the early '803
that this is what it could do,
you know, and we're there,
but it moved too quick, and I think
there hasn't been enough recognition
that it needs to fit within
the imperfect world of reality.
"But I can make it perfect", you know.
No, don't make it perfect.
Sometimes understanding those limitations
becomes key to capturing a feeling.
The '803 represents
an era of a lot of bravery.
The filmmakers were pushing
new techniques, trying new things.
Some of them worked great
and some of them didn't.
Some of them really show their age today,
but there's something kind of wonderful
about that, that they were fearless
about the things that they would try.
Star Trek III:
The search for Spock
the adventure continues
I believe that the major
theme that runs through
Star Trek III is one
of family and sacrifice.
Have some friends.
If you count Spock, the seven
people have been through
so much together and they've
faced down death together.
We are now at a point
where a decision that has to be
made is going to cost them dearly.
If there's even a chance that
Spock has an eternal soul,
then it's my responsibility.
Yours?
Kirk, in particular,
has to make tremendous
sacrifices during this film.
My god, bones...
What have I done?
Christopher Lloyd
as the klingon commander is
an interesting casting choice.
You, will tell me the secret
of the Genesis torpedo.
He just sinks himself
right into that role.
He chews scenery just as
well as William shatner does.
You fool! Look around you!
The planet's destroying itself!
Yes! Exhilarating, isn't it?
You realize just how versatile an actor
he was to go from reverend Jim
to this and then, you know, a year
later, he's in back to the future.
Leonard, he took Spock to heart.
I mean, really, really took him to heart.
As soon as he passed that
gate with the word
Paramount scrawled on
top of it, he became Mr. Spock.
Spock brought a lot of opportunity
to Leonard nimoy.
There's no doubt about it.
But does he need Spock? No.
When Star Trek III came along,
I think
he was more than willing to walk away
unless he had something more
challenging to do, which was direct.
What I recall is Michael eisner
trying to talk
Leonard out of directing himself,
making his directing debut.
Leonard's calling me up
and I said, "are you prepared
to let the ship sail without you?"
And he said, "absolutely"
I said, "then sit tight, you're
going to direct the movie."
If he says he's not going
to be in the movie
unless he gets the director,
he'll get the director.
Period, the end.
Spock is the linchpin of it.
He would say to me repeatedly,
“the studio really only understands
a two by four to the head."
What they understand is leverage,
and he had leverage.
They realized that their box office
is going to be bigger
if Spock appears in the film.
They kept the thumbscrews on him.
Jeff Katzenberg looked over his shoulder
every day to make sure he was on time
and on budget.
The fact is, he had no experience other
than directing some episodes
of TV, including t.J. Hooker,
you know, other than that,
he was a neophyte.
I didn't know what we were in for.
Leonard directed by omission,
if he didn't say anything, it was fine
when I got that through my head,
I felt less neglected.
Good. More, more.
He is dying. Dying.
He had confidence in him, I felt that
he knew what he was doing,
he had taste, his story
sense was quite good.
He's the guy who prepped things to death.
You try to deal with as many variables
as possible during the
pre-production process
so that when you're in production,
things hopefully run smoothly.
So much so that you can
have these happy accidents.
Filmmaking is really, a lot of it
is just dealing with problems
all day long, it's story,
it's story, it's always story,
first and foremost.
You saved the ship.
You saved us all.
Don't you remember?
The really, really
renegade, seat of your pants
crazy comedy of the '70s
found its way into like a big
mainstream sci fi spielbergian thing.
Ready?
Ghostbusters
you've got this
sort of rag tag New York story,
but then into it,
you have this extremely sci fi, techy,
supernatural, insane thing, and it worked.
Get her!
Action!
I just worked with bill Murray on
stripes, and Harold as well.
And that turned out well.
That's the fact, Jack!
My agent, Michael ovitz,
at that time, sent me
this sort of 80 page treatment
that Dan aykroyd had written.
He had written it originally for
belushi and himself.
I think he had spoken to
Eddie Murphy at some time
about doing with him.
It was set in the future,
there were multiple
ghost busting groups on various plantes.
And the competed with each other.
These groups, they worked like firemen.
Their service was to rid the universe
of ghosts or monsters.
I said, "look,
it has this great idea in it,
but it's almost impossible to make.
I think it should happen today
and I think it should happen in a
big city like New York.“
I really pitched
the story of ghostbusters.
Our courteous and efficient
staff is on call
24 hours a day to serve all
your supernatural elimination needs.
We're ready to believe you!
When the actors are really in their finest,
most involved way on the set, in costume,
they can be the most creative
as well to find some unique way
of maybe finding a fresh spin on it.
It's directed and free at
the same time, and there was
I could by just using as few words
as possible, interrupt the
improvization and refocus things
so that the storytelling made sense
in the context of everything else
in terms of character
and in terms of intent and tone.
And so that things weren't just silly.
There is no Dana, only 2qu!
What a lovely singing
voice you must have.
And just look for comedy
in the reality of the situation.
We came, we saw,
we kicked its ass!
It really boils down to the
ghostbusters themselves,
it's charming
when Dan aykroyd slides down
that fire pole, when they first go
see this dilapidated firehouse.
Wow! This place is great!
They're all big kids.
We should stay here, tonight! Sleep
here. You know, to try it out.
It's so crazy and wonderful,
and they're having such a blast
and that just spills right over to us.
It's the perfect bill Murray movie
that laid back goofiness
that only bill Murray has.
I'll take miss Barrett back to her
apartment and check her out.
I'll go check out miss
Barrett's apartment.
The addition of Ernie,
I think, was really special
in a lot of ways.
If there's a steady paycheck in it,
I'll believe anything you say.
Ernie brought in the
outsiders to people
that didn't really feel
like a ghostbuster, you know?
It would be a twinkie... 35 feet long
weighing approximately 600 pounds
that's a big twinkie.
I think I was very fortunate
to be making popular movies
in this era, an era of directorial power
which we didn't really quite
have as directors prior to it
and certainly
after it.
It's the stay puft marshmallow man.
My films,
they almost uniquely have a kind
of emotionality that made you feel good.
It's the positiveness that made for repeat
viewing.
Let's show this prehistoric bitch
how we do things downtown.
The last starfighter
the last starfighter is about a boy
in a trailer park who is
really good at a video game.
Yeah!
It turns out to be an
actual recruitment tool.
Aha! A test sent out across the universe
to find those with the gift
to be starfighters.
It's the perfect fantasy
if you play video games.
It was a genius idea,
the fact that nobody came up with it
before that, is kind of amazing.
You were recruited by the star league
to defend -
to defend the frontier against xur
and the ko-Dan armada.
Although most of it
takes place in outer space,
there's such a down to earth
element about it.
Nick castle, the director,
wanted to imbue it
with a sort of a capras esque
sort of quality.
I'm shaking the dust of this crummy
little town off my feet and
I'm gonna see the world!
Forget it, man. I'm doing
something with my life.
He has this girlfriend,
he has dreams of doing bigger
things and all his dreams
keep falling through.
Still go to city college
with your friends.
Until this incredible
situation comes along,
and he almost doesn't
take advantage of it.
Listen, centauri. I'm not any of those
guys, I'm a kid from a trailer park.
That's what you think!
Then that's all you'll ever be.
Robert Preston,
the music man,
the music man in outer space.
Trouble with a capital t,
and that rhymes with p,
and that stands for poor.
When we found out that he would
do it, we were just so happy.
Centauri!
Very robust fellow.
Smoke like a chimney,
but he had that great voice.
Say hello to my assistant, beta.
Howdy.
I did get to act with two Alex's lucky me.
I'm a state of the art,
top of the line beta unit,
put here as a courtesy replacement
for while you are away.
He's just comically inept.
That's why it was fun to play,
because you can
just put yourself in that position
where everything is brand new.
Nothing is normal.
Ha ha ha ha! Ha ha ha ha!
Dan o'herlihy.
He agreed to play Greg.
Greg, the gung-ho iguana.
He would never be seen.
There would always be
this prosthetic giant mask over him.
He had to triple what he would
normally do in terms of gestures.
Ah, now you look cute!
I never saw him
not looking like lizard man,
and he's very distinguished looking,
you know, white haired, blue eyed
Irish guy, you know, and I just didn't
I didn't really know
what he looked like.
How do you do?
He does this like...
I was cast in last starfighter
playing a role called Lewis's friend.
Spaceship lands to return
Alex to the trailer park
and I go, "aliens, awesome!"
Oh my god!
They cut that scene from the movie
before it was ever filmed,
but I had already done a bunch of
featured extra work, so every year
I get a couple of hundred bucks from
the last starfighter as a residual payment
and I get to be part of a movie that,
as a fan, I was crazy about as a kid.
Are you kidding me?
I was not aware
of the amount of pressure
because of the cgi,
the tension it was surrounding,
oh my god, is this going to work or not?
This may be a colossal failure.
The very end of the death
blossom sequence,
when I sat in a cage,
it was like a carnival ride.
And I could do about two
of them and then I was like...
The movie didn't make any
money when it came out,
it was only the people that
saw it on vhs or hbo.
Someone told me that last starfighter
was number one in video rentals.
Thank god for science,
creating another Avenue for people
to see it and enjoy it.
That's what the movie's about,
the possibilities are unknown,
but are out there,
and all you have to do is find them
and then hold on tight
and go for the ride.
Wow!
No words,
really, for what buckaroo banzai is.
Let's rock and roll!
Could I really tell you the storyline?
I'm not sure.
Buckaroo banzai, perhaps
you can explain yourself?
Do you have to know
what the film is about,
even if you starred in it?
Buckaroo banzai is a film
that to this day, I do not understand.
If you can tell me what it's about,
I'll give you money.
He was able to do everything.
He was like a scientist,
a rock star, a samurai warrior.
No limitations whatsoever.
Just a fun imaginary story
about a group of scientists
that play rock and roll and,
you know, defy the laws of physics.
Is it a comedy, is it sci fi,
is it action?
Is it a social satire?
Is it a love story? Is it romance?
What is it?
And it doesn't spoon feed you anything.
It just throws you in the middle
of this haywire crazy world.
It was a shipn that was
being steered by Richter.
Richter and Mac would always
powwow. To them,
it made sense.
Subcutaneous microphones
are gonna allow the
patient to transmit verbal
instructions to his own brain.
All we had to know
is that we had to act like
it made sense to us,
right?
What are they?
Lectroids from planet 10 by way
of the the eighth dimension.
I guess
I'm going to be the dry, straight
man surrounded by lunatics.
I had great fun watching Peter
go through his process and Alan go through
hers and Jeff goldblum just brilliantly
stealing every scene that he was in.
We all gave up to Jeff's antics
and just enjoyed them
rather than try to compete with them
because you couldn't, you couldn't win.
You know, I thought you were
gonna rehearse or something.
The Hong Kong cavaliers.
Billy Vera and the beaters were
kind of the musical center of that show.
That was really the Hong
Kong cavalier band.
Peter brought in the clarinet
because he could play.
It works perfectly.
Jeff goldblum and I got a
band together after that.
Matter of fact I've got to leave right
here and go play the trumpet.
Evil! Pure and simple from
the eighth dimension!
I had special abilities
to do stunts and things,
and so they asked me
if I wanted to be a lectroid.
John whorfin destroyed.
John lithgow is also an intense actor,
but he's also very silly.
Of course it's me, you fool.
Who'd you think?
I think he found lizardo
to be liberating,
given the gravity that had been
laid on him as an Oscar nominee.
John lithgow, in the world
according to garp.
He was just having a good time.
Where are we going?
Planet 10!
When?
Real soon!
You put John lithgow and
Christopher Lloyd in a room,
the mind can't conceive of what
the acting result would be
I was supposed to be tortured and all I'm
doing is hysterically laughing.
I think of that scene now I crack up.
Those are two gifted human beings.
Bigboote'.
Activate your probes.
And then they promise you a
sequel, and the sequel never comes.
A lot of the studio bosses
didn't know what to make of it.
It was supposed to be a series of movies
and they were supposed to all
be as lighthearted
and antic and sort of over-the-top.
It would fit in so well right now,
that sort of alternative universe world
audiences now are more attuned, I think.
It would have been fun to see it
go on and get weirder and weirder.
My eight year old watched it,
I said, "what's it about?"
He says, "who cares what it's about?“
we don't have to care what
it's about, do we?
I guess not.
Remember, no matter
where you go,
there you are.
Terminator is a classic.
The Terminator
out of the gate, I appreciated
Cameron's filmmaking.
It was so satisfying.
You're just watching this extremely
talented filmmaker erupt onto the scene
and you just go, oh, I'm going
to now see every film
this person does because
they're obviously really good.
What day is it? The date!
12th, may, Thursday.
What year?!
It goes and it's just perfect.
You can't do that.
Wrong.
I was very inspired
by the editing of Terminator,
the speech of Terminator,
the harshness of Terminator.
The script was an excellent
blueprint for the movie.
It had propulsion, mystery,
annihilation, suspense,
romance, time travel.
It was all there.
Come with me if
you want to live.
Because the exposition is all on the run
during a shootout.
I'm Reese, assigned
to protect you.
You've been targeted
for termination.
You're like living and dying in a scene
and getting the back story.
It was a dark version of the future.
I loved the down and dirty
spareness of a b movie
sort of aspect to it.
His hope
was to make a world class genre picture
heavily influenced by George Miller
other than the fact that he broke
down all barriers and went
Gonzo.
Jim had a certain vision
and he was pushing the envelope.
We weren't Hollywood
redoing the same thing.
Jim was saying,
"no, no, no, we can go here."
In between
all the action pieces,
there are some genuine high concept ideas
that get discussed about predestination
and your fate and what role
you play in history.
You're talking about things
that I haven't done yet
in the past tense.
It's driving me crazy.
Computers, once
they become sentient,
artificial intelligence will turn on us.
The technology itself will be
bent back upon us in the guise
of Arnold Schwarzenegger with an uzi.
Lance henriksen was
who Jim originally did his concept
sketch of the Terminator around.
With his skin coming away and
seeing the skeleton underneath.
I'm sure Lance was very disappointed
when he didn't get to play the Terminator,
but I can't imagine that
character without Arnold
portraying it.
Get out.
The Terminator skull itself,
many people don't know this,
the dimensions of it were arrived
at by taking a life cast of Arnold
and then carving down
from his features
down to a skull that would fit.
And those are Arnold's teeth.
The Terminator has Arnold
Schwarzenegger's teeth.
The point for Cameron was Sarah Connor.
He wanted the target to be the
most ordinary person he can imagine.
It's almost a hitchcockian rule.
The ordinary person.
With extraordinary circumstances.
That's what makes you relate.
Sarah Connor is an ordinary waitress
who will give birth to the savior
of the future.
I didn't ask for this honor,
and I don't want it!
Any of it!
Linda Hamilton and Michael biehn's
performance was incredible.
By the time the two of them got together
at the end, they so deserved it.
You knew exactly why
they were making love, obviously,
to save the world, to have this child.
I came across time
for you, Sarah.
I love you.
I always have.
She may be able to change the timeline
that she's on, is our future determined?
Do we have a choice in this algorithm
that we find ourselves in?
There is an ethical dilemma here.
We have to ask ourselves,
why are the terminators
trying to get rid of the humans?
Are the machines of the future
going to be environmentalists?
Because if they are, we better
be very frightened because we're
not doing the job that we need
to be doing to protect this planet.
And they may see us as a threat
and want to take us out.
I'll be back.
2010 is based on Arthur c. Clark's
novel: 2010 odyssey two,
which is itself a sequel to
the film version of 2001.
It has the thankless
task of being a sequel
to the greatest science
fiction film ever made.
The last thing you want to do
is make the sequel
to 2001 and piss off
Arthur c. Clark or Stanley kubrick.
That would not do the film unless kubrick
said okay and Arthur c. Clark said okay.
And Stanley kubrick, to me,
is one of the great directors of
the greatest directors that's ever lived.
I am not.
The only way to do
it was to make a film that
honestly could not be compared to 2001.
They're different in every possible way.
Kubrick said,
"just make sure it's yours.
Just make sure you
make your film.“
Roy scheider plays Heywood Floyd,
who was originally portrayed
by William Sylvester in 2001.
He has an opportunity to go out to Jupiter
and determine what actually happened
with the crew of the discovery.
Scheider, along with John lithgow
and Bob balaban,
hitch a ride aboard a Russian
spacecraft captained by Helen mirren.
What has happened
to American bravery?
Alive and well,
thank you very much.
What's happened to
Russian common sense?
This was the height of the Reagan era,
and here's a film
about Russians and Americans
doing a joint venture in space.
In Arthur's book, everybody
got along famously.
I thought it would be interesting
to have all hell break loose on earth
and have it become serious.
All American personnel are ordered
to leave Soviet teritorry
immediately, or they will
be placed under arrest.
It plays with the cold war
thing, the early '803 paranoia
that we had, but it also takes hal,
who is essentially the villain in 2001
and kind of reprograms him to be the hero.
Do you want me to stay with you?
No. It is better for
the mission if you leave.
Keir dullea returns to
reprise his role as Dave bowman.
And Douglas rain
returns to voice hal,
the computer.
Talked to Floyd?
Yes.
Would you like to
play a game of chess?
I play very well.
I'm sure you do.
I had recorded Douglas first.
So when keir did his scenes,
he did them with hal.
I'm afraid.
Don't be. We'll be together.
And he came to me aftennards in tears,
because when he did 2001, he did it
with a cockney third assistant director.
Open the pod bay doors, hal.
Sorry, Dave.
Can't do that, Dave.
We use the docking ring in
leonov to attach to the discovery.
For a trip back home.
Roy scheider was joy
the only quirk with Roy was
he was always in the sun.
He would be outside the
studio with a reflector.
The crew put the sign of scheider beach
outside the stage.
In 2001, the monolith was a sentinel,
it's an alarm that goes off
that tells some other
intelligence that somebody
has stepped on the moon.
I certainly think they left a lot
to people's own interpretation.
In 2010, the
monolith is a basic life form
building block.
I think it's kind of futuristic DNA.
I tried to make a science feasible film.
I just wanted to make a film
that was completely different,
so it could not rightfully
be compared to 2001
because I can't be compared
to Stanley kubrick.
It's as simple as that.
What's going to happen?
Something wonderful.
Dune, a world beyond
your experience,
beyond your imagination.
Dune,
that's a huge, bestselling book
with a dedicated fan following.
Back in the '803,
those marketers,
they had no idea. They couldn't figure
out how to sell the real hard sci fi,
even though there was huge demand for it.
People weren't ready for them.
The precedent hadn't been set.
Dune takes place on four planets,
I could never keep them straight.
I've had more fun with sand at the beach.
David lynch's dune,
is this brilliantly evocative story
about 3000 years into the future,
and it's all about the planet dune Iraqis
the source of spice.
The spice extends life.
The spice expands consciousness.
The metaphor is it's about the middle east
and about discovery of oil
and how everybody wants
to get their hands on it and occupy it.
I mean, the drug metaphors
are quite clear.
You know, throughout.
Thoughts acquire speed,
the lips acquire stains,
stains become a warning. It is by
will alone I set my mind in motion.
But it's this wonderful kind
of messianic adventure story,
full of great detail.
So the design of the
technology, the spacecraft,
and the hardware is lynchian.
Wonderful sort of gothic sensibility
or art deco. When you get David lynch
making anything,
he is fascinated by the textures
of existence and life.
The thing that came
in, we were just like, oh lord,
they were so ugly.
Who's going to clean up
the messes in science fiction.
Who's the guy with the mop.
And of course, we were obsessed with
this idea of what the worms looked like.
They were the great challenge
of making dune work and very wisely,
lynch called upon the talents of Carlo
rambaldi, who was the great puppet creator.
The worms, little...
And then we had t-shirts on the show
that said 'i rode the worm'
and it was ridiculous, you know?
I am chani, daughter of liet.
From my dreams.
The first day
of working on dune, I was a little scared.
That's a huge project.
I will love you forever.
You are my life.
Kyle was a lot of fun,
and he was very diligent.
He worked hard.
And he really wanted to do the best job
he could.
- The pain!
- Enough!
Siam felt pretty silly
in that blue thong,
I got to tell you, he was
kind of like, oh my god.
I just used to crack up
whenever I saw myself
on that movie, going, "more deep!"
More deep!
The stillsuit is built for you.
With a fremen suit
in good working condition,
life can be sustained for weeks.
Even in the deep desert, sire.
They took about half an hour to get on,
and then basically we
wouldn't take them off,
but they'd zip down to here,
but we'd squirm
out of the top of them
and you'd literally avoid liquids
so that you wouldn't be the one saying,
I have to go to the bathroom
and make everybody wait half an hour
while you go over to where the
bathroom is in churubusco studios.
Your ears and nose, and
your scalp and your skin
and your body was just filthy,
so it was quite a commitment
to clean every night.
. I think David at a certain
point was like, holy crap,
this is a big project because he would go,
"well, we'll fix it in post."
I remember saying, "oh oh“, you know.
Long live Duke leto!
After a while, man, it really
just became like
everybody would get off work
and hit the bar.
When people saw the movie dune,
they would be handed a glossary sheet.
There was a lot of dazzle factor with it,
but the characters themselves,
it was hard to
for me anyway, it was hard
to relate to it sometimes.
I will kill him!
Paul!
Why dune didn't didn't land,
I think, is debatable, but it didn't,
and some people still love that movie
and some people it never landed
with, no matter how much time passed.
I think David in a way felt out
of his element. With the other films,
I think he had much more control.
The struggle is what's more
common in show business is people
struggling to get that vision out,
and I don't think he had ever
experienced that obstacle before.
Tom Selleck
Cynthia rhodes
gene Simmons
runaway
runaway was directed
by Michael crichton.
It is a futuristic cop
movie about robots
that are programed to kill people.
I played the bad guy.
No, really?
A guy named Luther.
I said drop your gun.
I'm not kidding, asshole.
The way I auditioned is, he said,
"look into my eyes with intensity
that you're going to kill me."
So I just looked at him.
He says, "okay, you got the job."
I never read for the part.
| just
did a lot of brooding.
Kiss meets the phantom of the park.
Other than that,
runaway was gene's
first villain role, for sure.
I loved Magnum p.I.
And I also loved kiss growing up.
Gene and his crazy tongue.
I remember when I met him
the first time I was like,
"do you really have a goat's tongue
sewed onto your own?"
And he'sjust like,
"no, it's just really long.
The ladies love it, right?"
Hey, come on, tiger.
The father-son scenes
with Tom Selleck
came out real.
It wouldn't kill you to get
married again, you know.
I know. It wouldn't kill
you to go to sleep.
The heart of the story and finding that
underlying humanity and connection
or relatability to the characters
in these stories.
Advanced technology
in the movie with my gun,
which I have in my collection,
I have that original gun,
you shoot the bullet
and it goes around and finds you.
Heat seeking.
Little remote control cars.
One down.
The spiders that shot acid.
Those were remote control, really neat.
There was a couple
of different kinds.
Some would jump.
Some would scurry.
I wanted a spider
so bad.
Dad, are you coming to get me?
Kids in dangerous situations, yeah,
the '803 were a little
more free with that.
Let him go. Now!
He's going to let him get killed
by these crazy acid blowing up spiders.
And it's pretty dark.
The spiders will let you in,
but they won't let you out.
I can't have any witnesses,
it's too messy.
The spiders have been programmed to
kill the first person that comes out
of the elevator.
He was just like, "what? Bobby!“
Bobby!
I thought it was good.
I thought it came off well.
Is the movie a triple a movie?
No, but my kids saw it
and they gave me a thumbs up.
That's good enough.
Ohoh
Creature effects are a huge part
of the science fiction experience.
It is so important that we
believe that the creature is real.
They're really important decisions
for how these films work
or don't work, if the alien hadn't
worked in alien and aliens,
they don't work at all.
And if e.T. Is absurd, then e.T. Fails.
When you see something on screen,
that you know for a fact
was just a bunch of people pushing
buttons in a dark room somewhere,
there's a disconnect there.
But if you see something,
even if it doesn't look perfectly real,
that's a practical effect.
You're like, wow! How did they do that?
Where are the operators, what the hell.
And so there is a connection there.
There's a charm,
it's a stylistic approach.
They were still dynamic enough
when presented the right way
to immerse you in it, and you
forget all about the technology,
which is a good thing,
and you just follow the story.
I think that was true of Yoda.
I think that was true of et.
I saw an early e.T.
Without the sound effects, and I was like,
"uh, I don't know about this."
You see it with sound and music and
fine cutting, you don't question
anything.
E.t. Found home.
E.t.'s design was magical,
in the scenes
that I did with e.T.
I could suspend my imagination like that.
It was just like working with another kid.
When we first saw
the Yoda stuff and some of
the rushes, it was like,
I don't know about this puppet.
And then you see it
cut together in the scene and it's like,
yeah, totally works.
You buy the intention.
I'm looking for someone.
Looking? Found someone you
have I would say.
The walking Yoda.
It was a long prospective shot
they wanted, and they were looking for
a perfectly proportioned guy
that'll fit in the costume.
They said, "you're too
tall to be Yoda."
So they gave me the knee pads and
you have to learn to walk on the knees.
I worked with Kenny baker on star wars,
used to have too many beers at lunchtime.
Couldn't get in, and Dave
tomlin would go, “get into r2-d2.”
I said, “but that's not made for me.”
he said,
“yeah, get in there.”
Kenny was only three feet,
seven inches tall.
Man, I'm 4“4. To squeeze
into that was hard.
It was tough.
I love that every creature effect
is a team of people working together,
whether it is all of the puppeteers
doing jabba the hutt,
whether it is one guy
in a suit in predator.
That giant space worm in the
asteroid in empire strikes back.
I love that that thing
looks like an oven mitt.
And it's just someone going like,
chase it out and do that.
I'm just certain
slimer is my most lovable,
endearing creation,
and for those of you that don't
know how he was made,
I tried to look at it
as a cartoon character.
You know, slimer was big.
It wasn't actually a puppet.
It was a device that a gentleman
named Mark Wilson wore.
He looked through the mouth.
We shot against a black stage.
I can get people in black suits
as many people around him as possible
to stick their arms in this puppet
and muscle a smile, even the tongue
that comes out of his mouth
and licks his lips, that's a tongue glove.
The whole thing was just to make him
as funny as possible.
In the movie it works, and I'm really
happy with it, it's the most iconic
thing I've worked on.
Everybody knows slimer.
He slimed me.
The thing for me has yet to be surpassed
in the ingenuity and imagination
that you see on screen.
Rob bottin was the mastermind
behind the majority
of what you see. At a certain
point during the production,
Rob was ovennhelmed.
He was ill and he was not able
to finish the dog thing effect.
So Stan Winston decided
to really make it a very
simple hand puppet.
You can see if you really look for it,
the body is where the puppeteers
head is, and the head
and mouth are simply a hand puppet.
- Come on.
- Okey dokey
with Howard the duck, George
wanted to do it as a costume.
I tried to talk to George out
of it, you know.
I was like, "you don't know
if it's going to work."
We don't have the flexibility
to do what we did today, what we would
be doing with computer graphics.
But it was going to be a guy in a suit.
It was a challenge.
My suit was animatronic.
We went through 19
different heads at 50,000 each.
It was put on, and then
hot glued shut.
So therefore I couldn't
take a regular break.
No lunch breaks and no breaks at all.
So they would drop M&M's
down my beak.
I was a natural.
I could find my Mark without seeing it.
If you move shit, tell the duck.
And I tripped over,
50,000 dollar mask on.
This is beginning to seriously
undermined my self-esteem.
Predator is the biggest black
Mark on my career for no
good goddamn reason.
They handed this design over
that their production designer had done,
and I immediately said,
"this is never going to work."
It didn't matter how much time
and money we had, it was impossible.
They hired Jeanne-Claude
because he's a martial arts expert,
and they put him in the suit
where he can barely totter.
It was meant to be
replaced and roto'd.
So of course the guy's like,
"why? Why did you even hire me?“
no one had bothered to tell from
production, and he gets there an goes,
"what's with the suit?"
And I said, "well, you're playing
a monster in this film.“
“I never thought it was
a real suit."
"I hate this suit.
I look like a superhero."
And then he found out
he was going to be invisible
for half the movie,
and he was enraged about that.
He didn't know
about that, right?
Don't think these guys read the script?
I tried and tried to get them
to let me do something else
that I knew would work.
And they were like, "absolutely not.“
it was absolutely doomed
from the beginning.
They pulled the plug pretty quickly.
I think it was thanks to Arnold,
who had formed a relationship
with Stan Winston on the Terminator
that Stan was approached for the job,
"why don't you call Stan for this one?"
That's a terrible Arnold impression.
Knowing they had very little time,
they decided to take an old school
approach. It's just a man in a suit,
but it's a man in a suit with a killer
facial design and a killer finish.
And one of the great creature
suit performers of all time,
Kevin Peter hall, who had just done
Harry from Harry and the Hendersons.
Unlike the alien, the
predator could express
a little emotion when it looks at you,
you can almost sense its disapproval.
Alien,
one of the most unique
and influential creature
designs ever. In aliens,
James Cameron made the wise
decision to really honor
H.R. giger's designs.
They removed the clear
skull carapaz thing
to reveal this sort of bony
under structure.
It was a combination of men in suits,
cable actuated puppets.
And that sort of thing
to bring those alien warriors
to life.
You got gymnasts and dancers,
people could really morph
into these creatures bodies
and bring them to life.
Occasionally, when you had a break,
you know, you'd see one of these guys with
with their alien head tucked under
their arm, just smoking a cigaret, right?
I think it was quite amazing
to see how James Cameron
and Stan Winston worked
together to create the queen alien.
It was awe inspiring, really.
It was like
watching kabuki theater
Manning Poles that had wires,
going over pulleys that would work her arm
or make her walk fon/vard.
Then in the queen alien head,
the smallest special effect guy
on the crew, was tucked in her head
and his only job was to
push goo out of her teeth.
That was extraordinary filmmaking, man.
While most of the shots you
see of the alien queen are the full size
puppet or parts of the full sized puppet,
there are few moments
where it's actually a
rod puppeted miniature
built by the skotak brothers
from the Stan Winston studio maquette.
I mean, that film is the
perfect example of how
you take every technique
and you bring it all together,
and that's where magic happens.
This baby hits 88 miles per hour.
You're gonna see some
serious shit.
Back to the future.
How far you're going?
About 30 years.
I love time travel,
I love the idea that you could just be
transported somewhere in time.
I'm a huge back to the future fan.
It's a perfect movie, it's probably one of
the great Hollywood scripts of all time.
It's just an unbreachable screenplay.
you're my mo-you're my mom.
People say to me,
“what would you say are the most
important aspects of screenwriting?"
I say, "there's three of them:
Character, character and character."
If you're not with your
characters, you've got nothing.
When you see doc brown
introduced in back to the future,
you're going to say, "okay, I will
believe that what he invents works.“
you look at the delorean
and you say, "yeah, this looks like
it's something that the guy actually
did build in his garage.“
I'm from the future.
I came here in a time machine
that you inveneted.
Yes, we can have fun with the
bells and whistles of time travel,
the clock tower, all that stuff.
But the end of the day, what we
have in back to the future
is a very simple idea,
which is what would happen
if I was there on my parents' first date.
We had always wanted Michael j. Fox
to play Marty mcfly, but we couldn't
get him out of family ties TV series.
We cast Eric stoltz, particularly
at the urging of sid sheinberg.
President of mca. Sheinberg
actually said, "I am so sure
that Eric stoltz is going to be great
in this that if he's not,
you know, you start the movie
all over again with somebody else."
Now, he never expected
us to take him up on that.
Eric didn't have the natural sense
of humor that Michael j. Fox had.
He kind of played it less for laughs.
Bob zemeckis gave Eric
the bad news on Thursday night
and the following Monday or Tuesday night,
we were back at twin pines mall.
It was the first
time Michael j. Fox
came to work. Once
he started performing,
everybody could see this is Marty mcfly.
Are you telling me that
you built a time machine
out of a delorean?
The way I see it...
With the costars,
he brought things out in them,
and so Christopher Lloyd was better.
I finally inveneted
something that works!
Lea Thompson was way better.
Oh my god, he's a dream.
Wait a minute, doc, are you trying
to tell me that my mother
- has got the hots for me?
- Precisely!
The scene with Marty
and Lorraine in the car
that was always a
really critical scene
to be able to pull that off.
Don't worry.
If this was going to work,
Lorraine had to break it off.
We wrote this line,
"I feel like I'm kissing..."
My brother.
The look on Michael j. Fox's
face when she pulls away
after she makes the
move, is priceless.
It gives us permission to make that work.
Would it have worked like that with Eric?
I don't think it had a chance
of working like that.
This is why actors get the
kind of salaries that they get,
because when they're
that good, it's worth it.
This one tells you where you're going.
This one tells you where you're are.
This one tells you where you were.
There are basically two different
kinds of time travel in science fiction.
There's the ones where you can change
the past and there's ones where you can't.
Science fiction theater.
The third kind of time travel is what
I call the back to the future mechanic.
The picture in back to the future
is the quintessential example of that.
They establish that as this is the way
things work and they stick to that.
It's like it has been erased.
Erased.
That's the first
rule of science fiction, you establish
some rules, you stick to those rules.
It helps, of course,
obviously that it's a comedy.
We are sending you
back to the future!
One of the questions ilm had for us
is what is it going to look
like to the time traveler?
And they were suggesting
all kinds of elaborate effects.
But at the end of the day, Bob and I said
“time travel should be instantaneous,
so let's just get on with it."
Going back to our belief
that what we were telling here
really was a human story,
it was not a story about technology.
People say to me,
"why do you think back to the future
is still as compelling and popular today
as it was back in the day?"
Hello? Hello? Anybdoy home?
- Think, mcfly!
- Think.
It's all about the characters.
These are all really
powerful human elements.
And that is what the movie is about.
Roads? Where we're
going we don't need roads.
From the producers of jaws,
and the director of splash,
cocoon
one of the things I think
was very evident in the '803,
we saw a lot of young heroes,
we saw a lot of youth
in this physical prowess.
What cocoon did, in a
very interesting way
call into this social standard of
what old means. A movie like batteries
not included really wouldn't exist
without the proof of concept
that cocoon was able to supply
to the industry.
Everything's happening so fast...
I absolutely love
cocoon, beautiful Ron Howard film.
It's a science fiction film about aliens,
but not really.
Cocoon is about aging, it's about life.
Don ameche, Jessica tandy,
hume cronyn, were these
aging actors.
Will you still love me when
I can't keep up with you?
Of course. I love you now
and you can't keep up with me.
Wilford brimley, who played one
of the older gentlemen in the movie,
was only 50 years old
during the making of that film.
They're in this old folks home and doing
what they're doing, every now and again,
they would go to the swimming pool
and just fool around and have some fun.
What they don't realize
is that at the bottom of the pool
are these cocoohs.
What are rocks doing in a pool?
These older folks
start to feel rejuvenated.
They can do things
they couldn't do before.
You think there's cocaine
in that pool?
Might be.
They would do their favorite things,
they would go dancing,
they would go try to
fix the thing they regretted.
Some enchanted evening.
Brian dennehy
peels back his body suit and reveals
these sort of really magical aliens,
these sort of glowing beams
that float through the skies.
These older folks were
offered the opportunity
to leave earth with these
aliens and live forever.
Forever?
We don't know
what forever means.
The question
in cocoon becomes,
is this cheating human mortality?
Is our clock supposed to run out?
It's a deeply, deeply moving film.
Can you help me?
I adored cocoon.
Ron Howard is able to get to
the heart of the man's struggle
or the woman's struggle
and be able to overcome it.
One of the things I love about Ron Howard
is that he is a true storyteller.
If it's a comedy or a drama
or it's in the future,
or if it's in the past, or if it's
right here in this very moment.
The way nature's been treating us,
I don't mind cheating her a little.
I feel like Ron Howard cares
about how the audience feels
at the end of the movie.
We all went to see madmax
beyond thunderdome.
Huge movie.
Tina Turner, biggest pop star in the world
at the time, had a hit song on the radio,
we don't need another hero.
Thunderdome.
Sorry.
I remember the rolling stone cover, too,
with Mel Gibson and Tina Turner,
and you just went, oh man, this is big.
Madmax
beyond thunderdome
the post-apocalyptic subgenre.
It just allowed the filmmakers
imagination to run wild.
You can feel the ruin of the past
as they were just trying
to hold on to civilization again.
And that's what makes it powerful.
How do we keep living?
And how does civilization grow again?
With the road warrior, you're focused
on gas and misery
and just living day to day.
The idea develops into
trying to create a new resource
using methane, to move
toward a new future
that can be sustainable.
I don't know anything about methane.
You can shovel shit, can't you?
Tina Turner was just so big on screen,
being a woman of color and just sort of
running that whole situation.
The master blaster,
you know, their competition
between each other.
Who run bartertown?
Master blaster runs bartertown.
She tries to force Max
to do her bidding by killing the blaster
of the master blaster team.
This is thunderdome.
Death is listening,
and will take the
first man that screams.
We have this big, extravagant,
perfectly insane fight on bungee
cords inside this thunderdome.
They had that really menacing
character that he's got to fight.
And it's this big dude, you think he's
just going to mop the floor with him.
But then the other thing that was sort of
shocking was when they took
the helmet off, you've just
sort of felt for the character.
You saw that he was this
person who was an adult
that was a child, instantly,
that scene changed for everybody.
I think that was a magic moment.
There are two movies in mad Max beyond
thunderdome. There's the first movie, which
has our hero wandering into part of town
after his rig is stolen from him.
Then there's this other movie
after he gets kicked out.
He stumbles across these
sort of like lost children
in the middle of the desert,
who are apparently the leftover refugees
from an airliner crash from years
and years and years ago.
That was too disjointed with the
fact it was two stories,
whereas with road warrior
and even with mad Max the original,
there was a direct correlation
from a to z.
There's...
A unique challenge in doing sequels.
There's an audience you're beholden to
and you want to honor that.
And yet we all feel compelled
to express ourselves uniquely.
Civilization.
I'll do anything to protect it.
We continue this theme
of resource scarcity.
Don't you understand? This is water.
You can't live without it.
Madmax beyond thunderdome
really focuses the futuristic
forecasts and the warning
that if we don't change,
if we don't alter the way we think
about how we share resources,
that we'll end up fighting
over these resources in the future
on a planet that could be a desert.
This is astickup! Anybody moves,
and they're dead meat!
Everybody was terrified that
explorers was going to
was going to be such a big hit that nobody
would think about back to the future.
The adventure begins
in your own backyard.
It was supposed to be a Wolfgang petersen
movie for Paramount, and they decided
they didn't want to make it in Bavaria,
which is what he wanted to do,
and so they sort of kicked Wolfgang
off the picture and sent me the script.
I thought it was a terrific script
and really fascinating, particularly
I just come off of gremlins
and it was very grueling and
time consuming and difficult,
and here was a movie about three kids
who built a spaceship and I thought,
this is just like huey, Dewey, and Louie.
This is like,
you know, this would be so much fun to do
after this arduous special effects movie.
Well, not realizing, of course,
that it was...
Not only was this an arduous
special effects movie, but had children
in it which can only work
certain hours of the day
and which also didn't have a third act.
It's pretty neat, huh?
Nonetheless, I made the movie,
but then in the middle of making it,
the studio changed hands
and the new people decided they w
anted to put it out on unfinished.
So they said, “stop working on it.
We're gonna put it out because it's last
year's movie from the old regime and
we don't care if it makes money.
Anyway, good bye."
I firmly believe there was a hell of a lot
better moving in there
than we were allowed to get out.
In the end, it didn't matter.
We could have released a blank film
and nobody would have noticed.
I've always had a knack of
finding kids that I could relate to
on a personal level.
If you cast your movie right,
you don't have to do a lot of directing.
And if you cast your movie wrong,
you have to do a lot of directing
and a lot of editing.
But in this case, these kids
were perfect for the part.
Incredibly talented.
And this was Ethan's first movie,
he'd never been on the sound stage before.
I can't stop thinking
about what's up there.
He picked it up
so quickly that some of the
camera people said,
“are you sure this
kid isn't a professional?"
And now he is.
Oh my god.
There she is.
In the original script,
the kids go to another planet
and they find kids just like themselves
and they play baseball and they go home.
And I didn't think that was
enough for a feature film.
And so we reworked it so that the
aliens are indeed like our kids.
But they're even more like earth kids
because they're a product
of listening to earth broadcasts.
They get TV up here?
Just waves in space.
So they speak in catchphrases,
trying to communicate with the earth kids
by using phrases that
they've heard on commercials,
on television.
- Me Ben.
- Me Tarzan.
This, it turned out,
was not an especially popular conceit.
We come in peace.
When Ethan hawke
says that he's waited all his life
to speak to aliens and the aliens says,
Ehhhhhh, what's up doc?
He gets very confused.
The audience also got a little confused,
and because he became disappointed
in what had been promised
as a great big space adventure
that would give him
the secret of the universe.
I think they all felt the same way.
But it don't make any sense.
That's the way they
think that we talk.
It didn't help the fact
that it opened on the day
of the live aid concert where
nobody went to the movies.
However, the miracle of home video
kind of resurrected it, and even though
it's only a shadow of the movie
I was intending to make,
it still has retained its
popularity over the years.
That was great!
What would you do
if you had everything you wanted?
Universal pictures presents
a John Hughes film
weird science
it's purely sexual
weird science really resonated with
me because I was an awkward kid
who loved technology and just to think of,
I could suddenly become cool.
It was the teenage Frankenstein.
So they created this beautiful woman.
I think that was probably
every geek's dream.
What would you little maniacs
likd to do first?
I think what he was best at,
John Hughes, is teenage angst and being
left out. His compassion for that.
It really resonated,
I think, to a lot of people.
Yo! Check this out!
Teenage life,
thank god I'm not there
anymore. Oh, god.
You made me.
You control me.
Kelly lebrock.
She had a sense of humor and a sexuality
and a confidence and a personality.
I can be a real serious bitch.
It was elevated,
her portrayal of the character.
And it made everything come together
the way it was supposed to.
You guys have better loosen up.
One of the themes is
be careful what you wish for.
Using all of our technology
to do something wrong
and then not being able to control it,
then having the consequences,
which is me.
Tossed off into any good
books lately, have we?
Warner brothers were going to sue
their ass off if I looked like wez.
And yet they got me to look as close
like wez as is humanly possible.
I walked around that set
when I came onto it at universal,
like a two story house
that could be pulled
into two halves to film
in a real two story house.
And when they needed to have
a rocket to go through it,
they actually had a rocket.
This actual shell of a rocket
was built under stage 26 at universal
to come up hydraulically and Pierce
the actual floor of the set of the house.
And it was a one time shot.
What a big deal this scene,
right when John calls action
Anthony Michael hall farts
a silent but deadly.
It had to be a several hundred thousand
dollar moment that got ruined by a fart.
That's not cool, man.
If you watch the movie real closely,
we did this scene again
and they lowered the rocket and
we had to do all of our action backwards
and then they ran
it backwards for the final cut.
It was massive anarchy
at the end of that movie, that movie truly
is almost like the cat in the hat.
She is the the cat in the hat.
Oh, my god, weird science forever to me
is now going to be Dr. Seuss.
When are you gonna learn
people like you for what you are,
not for what you can give them.
The ultimate theme of weird science was
be yourself and you'll still get the girl.
I love you!
It may not be that girl,
but you'll still get the girl.
Drop and give me 20.
I was really excited by the space
shuttle program as a kid
because it was putting
people back in space.
The first space shuttle.
That had it happened
in my lifetime to that point.
The space shuttle was amazing
because of what promise it held,
which was we were going to be able to do
this much more often, much more cheaply.
The fact that they named
the very first space shuttle enterprise
was really cool and made me feel seen
because I was a Star Trek
nerd and I was like, wow, they named
real science after a TV show that I like.
That's really cool.
The vehicle came around
the corner of the building,
and in tow was the shuttle craft,
and across the nose of the shuttle craft
were the words the enterprise.
Knocked me out.
My perspective just totally changed,
and I said, "we are genuinely
in some small way, a part of history."
Suddenly, the highest form of
technology in the space program
became something extremely
familiar to everyday people.
We're not just in the audience anymore.
Now we can become a part of the adventure
when it's a space shuttle.
You start to see these films
like life force and hangar 18,
and airplane ii, spacecamp, that have at
the center of them, the space shuttle.
Go for main engine test.
It was this great bridge
between our reality
and the fantastic imagined world
of the future.
It was almost to the point where soon
we're going to be able to get a ticket,
you know, and take a
flight around the earth.
I was pretty close with Steven Spielberg,
and we would both
talk about wanting to go and wanting to go,
because they were talking about
taking an artist, taking
a filmmaker, taking a poet.
I'd like to go out and be behind
the camera, photographing up there.
Everyone just assumed
that space travel was so safe, you know?
Three, two, one... and liftoff!
I was shooting a TV movie.
We all gathered around a television screen
to watch this spectacular event
because we also knew
that there were civilians aboard,
so it made it extra special.
I was in New York, editing a video
production, we were interrupted.
Someone came in and said
"the challenger has just exploded."
- Challenger, go at throttle up.
And it just like stuck
a knife in my heart.
2,900 feet per second,
altitude nine nautical miles,
downrange distance
seven nautical miles.
We were all standing there
just in shell shock.
It was something...
It was unthinkable.
Absolutely devastating
in every possible way.
The first teacher in the teachers
and space program
was killed, and one of the first
African-American astronauts
was killed on the challenger explosion.
That shot of christa mcauliffe's parents
on the beach looking up at that twisted
contrail, knowing something's wrong
and not knowing quite what it was.
That image is seared into the minds
of a lot of people who saw that.
Today is a day for mourning
and remembering.
They had a hunger to explore
the universe and discover its truths.
They served all of us.
They, the members of the
challenger crew, were pioneers.
I think it was our first taste
of the genuine danger of it.
I just remember being so afraid
that this was going to be
the end of human space flight.
They wouldn't have sent a
teacher up, for god's sakes,
you know, if they knew that there was some
any chance at all of it being tragic.
Karen Allen
Barry bostwick
you're a wonderful crew.
Fine, that's great!
Challenger
we just wanted to honor the memories
and the talent and the heroism
of those original astronauts.
It was not only
the people who were lost, who were killed,
but it was the program
itself had been damaged.
The human race's fonnard movement toward
a future in space
beyond this planet,
something I had cheered for
since the time I was a kid.
The dedication of Star Trek iv
to the crew of the challenger
was a way of acknowledging
that there is a question
and a price to be paid
for going boldly
where people haven't gone before.
When the lights dimmed in the theater
and the dedication came on,
you could hear a pin drop for a
moment and then applause.
Science fiction fans,
they're much more focused
on the possibilities than the dangers
that every mission is life and death.
And the challenger disaster
was as if someone dear to me
in my life had died.
I said, "we've got to come back from this.
It will not be easy,
but we've got to come back
and we've got to keep going fonnard."
And thank goodness, that's what we did.
John badham
is among the last
of the utilitarian directors.
He could just direct anything: Action,
comedy, like comedy, romance, you name it
John badham could do it.
Short circuit,
it proved this as much as anything else.
Short circuit
I am a light.
Short circuit. I. Am. Alive.
Only instead of it being
an alien, it's a robot.
Welcome to my planet!
And you got Steve guttenberg
and ally sheedy, and the guy who
was supposed to be an Indian-American
but is actually being
played by Fisher Stevens.
It's only being wires and
several mechanisms and other
such machine-type apparatus,
for the Pete of sake.
Today, I'm not sure you could
get away with that.
Where are you from, anyway?
Bakersfield originally.
- No, I mean your ancestors.
- Oh, them. Pittsburgh.
Ally sheedy, as a young girl,
I looked up to, I loved and adored.
Malfunction
oh, you can talk!
Short circuit is a caretaker
friendship bond.
This concept of this robot
finding his humanity.
I need information.
I must learn everything.
I am alive.
Holy crow you can read!
And he has this quirky,
outgoing, weird personality, much like me,
that was based on all of the movies
and pop culture that he had picked up.
Disguise! Camouflage!
- Hi!
- Number 5!
There's a sense of joy
to that movie and a sense of life
and a sense of adventure.
He's built as a military weapon of war
that can destroy things with like
a single laser bolt.
Hello bozos!
But as a kid, you don't see that.
You don't think about that,
you're just like, he's alive.
Johnny 5.
He's just like, "no, I'm going to
smell flowers and hang out
and dance or make friends or whatever",
which was really neat premise.
One of my favorite moments in that movie
is when he accidentally steps
on a grasshopper.
Look what you did!
Error.
And he has this moment where he realizes
that he's mortal.
Disassemble.
Dead.
Disassemble!
Dead!
Being aware of your own mortality
is one of the deepest, most profoundly
human things, and that drives us
and that makes us what we are.
Of course I know it's wrong to kill,
but who told you?
I told me.
What short circuit does
really, really well
it makes you feel for this metal.
It's got some,
you know,
wonky little eyebrows or whatever,
and he's cute in his own sort of way,
but his metal, right?
And yet by the end of that movie,
you're like, "no, Johnny 5 is alive.
You can't disassemble him."
Don't shoot!
Don't shoot! He's alive!
He's alive!
You feel for it, and it's hard
to know sometimes
whether that's just
another part of the way
that humans are hardwired
to sort of anthropomorphize things
or whether that's a thing
that we're going to have to really sort of
worry about in the future.
Maybe Johnny.
Yeah! Johnny 5. It's cool.
Alien is one of the
most frightening movies
I've ever seen.
Alien is about survival,
aliens is about something bigger.
Aliens
this time it's war.
It's a war film in space.
Aliens, the draft,
the running name that Jim had,
was called grunts in space.
Cameron was writing Rambo ii
and aliens pretty much simultaneously.
And they kind of bled into one another
and aliens became a Vietnam film.
Subconsciously, it was sort of
about troops going under fire,
against an enemy they couldn't see.
Let's go! Let's go!
The other story was a story about
mothers and daughters. The queen
and her children fighting against
Ripley and her adopted child.
You instantly
feel for and need to rescue
this little girl who's seen her
parents killed and is still come up
with the wits to survive.
There's a very mythic and
primal thing going on here.
This is now mama bear versus mama bear.
Get away from her, you bitch!
At the time of filming, obviously,
I didn't really have any idea
of the magnitude
of the character Ripley, or the
character of vasquez or my character.
It was so important,
especially in the '80s, having
the female be the center of it,
the female with the flame thrower.
The females are the ones that are
taking charge.
Have you ever been
mistaken for a man?
No. Have you?
It began this movement,
a huge impact on the future
of action movies and sci fi movies.
We did operate
like as best as possible, a marine crew.
Al Matthews, sergeant apone.
All right sweethearts,
you heard the man
and you know the drill,
assholes and elbows...
He was, in fact, a former green beret,
so all of us Hollywood types,
you know, would demure
and avert him at all times.
What are you waiting for,
breakfast in bed?
Another glorious day in the corps.
The cohesiveness was really
formed in and around
training in the morning
and then also the rehearsal process.
And at that time, Hicks was
played by James remar.
Remar's involvement would have made it
even more intense.
Why he had to leave
had nothing to do with his acting.
However, it was quite shocking
to lose one of the leads of your film.
We all felt for Michael biehn.
Are you all right?
He literallyjumped into
remar's costume
and created his version of Hicks.
I'd like to keep this handy
for close encounters.
Bill Paxton was the glue of our set.
Check it out, I am
the ultimate badass!
And that's actually something
that sigourney Weaver
said at his memorial.
Yo! Stop your grinnin
and drop your linen.
To say we miss bill Paxton
is a true understatement.
Sometimes I'm still in awe,
like, oh my gosh,
I was in a James Cameron movie.
And they mostly come at night.
Mostly.
Sigourney just took care of me on set.
When we were in the eggs with the queen
alien in front of us and everything,
that was a very scary situation
with all the fire going on around us.
If you watch in the movie, she's going
like pushing me behind her.
That was a natural response.
I'm sure for everyone on set,
it was very difficult
and they probably were
a little bit concerned.
The last few years
that I've seen everyone,
they've actually asked,
did you have nightmares?
Did we like affect you psychologically?
And it didn't.
They would show me the process of building
something. They would show me
than how it was going to work.
Sometimes they'd throw something at me
to try to get my natural reaction
of a scare, different things like that.
At the time, I was definitely
afraid of dogs,
so I just pretended
like the aliens were dogs
coming after me.
This alien comes up and grabs me,
and it is terrifying,
however, for me, it was my friend
who was a stunt man in a suit
and then they put the head on,
and off we go.
To me, it was normal,
which is so abnormal,
really, if you look back at it.
Jim really took her under a wing and
made sure she was protected at all times,
and Paxton actually formed a really sort
of avuncular relationship with her.
When you got Lance, Paul Reiser and bill
Paxton together, there was trouble.
Keeping us all
light hearted, which is nice.
What do you want me to do,
fetch your slippers for ya?
Gee, would you, sir?
I'd like that.
I'm always amazed
when I go to a convention
how many military people come up to me
and say before they deployed,
they watched aliens because
it brought that feeling of unity
together.
You're just too bad.
I had an amazing experience.
It was definitely once
in a lifetime opportunity.
Run!
When you come out and
you're up here on top,
how much further can you go?
Not bad for a human.
Flight of the navigator
was wish fulfillment
for every 12 year old.
It's a story about time travel,
about alien contact and connection,
futuristic technology,
creatures from other planets
and then under it,
the journey of David Freeman
to find his way back home
to his true family.
Time has changed for everyone except him.
He's still 12 years old
and his family has gotten older.
It seems that we...
David.
It's the story of how he adjusts
and how he tries to undo that problem.
Been gone for eight years.
Gone where, outer space?
We videotaped hundreds of
kids to find Joey cramer.
And when I saw him, I just knew
that that was the kid.
Let it go, let it go.
A key element in why
I got the part in flight of the navigator
was because of that
emotional availability,
being able to connect
and cry realistically.
It's like a bad dream.
The key to the whole movie
and the reason I think it still resonates
is the human drama.
It's 1986, man.
Eight years since that night.
Randal kleiser
was an amazing director and was able
to really bring things out of me
so I could really immerse
myself in that world.
The script was children,
special effects and animals,
which are all no no's, but I found it
to be an exciting challenge.
Just take us 20 miles from here.
Compliant.
What are you doing?
Mark Damon
wanted to make an action movie
with the government
trying to shoot down the spaceship
and lots of explosions and stuff.
And Disney wanted to make a family drama.
So I was caught in the middle
trying to make them both happy,
and I think that made the movie
a little more interesting.
Can you follow it?
Follow it? I can't even see it.
I wanted to find a spaceship
that was different
from all the movies I'd seen.
Wow!
Cutting edge cgi,
there's a little bit of it
in there, and it holds up.
When I first walked
into that set of the interior
spaceship, that cool, reflective mylar,
I rememberjust being blown away by it.
It was so cool.
- I'm a trimaxion drone ship.
- Trimaxion?
- Affirmative.
- Okay, I'll call you Max, it's easier.
We wanted this character of Max
to have a personality,
and yet he was a robot.
I'm just a kid.
That is obvious. But your brain
has been programmed
with all appropriate star charts.
Before the mine transfer, Max
just sounds like an alien spaceship,
and he's like, sit down navigator.
Sit down, navigator.
You would never know
that it was pee-wee Herman
or Paul Reubens.
I think there's been
some sort of mistake.
I do not make mistakes.
And then when he scans the boy's brain,
we let him do the character
pee-wee Herman.
- That's it?
- That's it Davy!
Working with the puppets
and that world was really cool.
They were all built into the set,
the space terrarium.
Weird.
I love the big eyeball.
I love you.
What's really special
about flight of the navigator
is the heart of it.
Losing the family, getting the
family back together,
it has that warm Disney feeling
without being saccharine, I hope.
Goodbye, Davy.
It was so much fun.
People love it.
I'm so proud and grateful
to be part of it.
See you later alligator!
George Lucas presents an
electrifying new comedy.
Howard the duck
Howard the duck is about a duck
that comes from outer space,
is sucked down accidentally by some laser
pointed in the wrong direction.
All he wants is to go home.
I've got no intention
of being stranded here.
Then he meets up with this
all girl band fronted by Lea Thompson.
I love the early comics.
Steve gerber, who created Howard for
the comics, was a friend of mine.
A lot of people went in and thought,
oh, Howard, cute, duck,
expecting much more of a family film,
and they had actually taken
the more adult storytelling of the Howard
the duck comics.
Must be mating season.
None of it was g-rated.
I love irreverent comedy.
Kids are just little adults
with a lack of discernment.
For me as a kid, I was like,
there's a talking duck and he's sassy.
Well, sex appeal. Some guys
got it, and some guys don't.
Howard...
This is great.
Lea Thompson was my girl.
She hugged me and she goes,
"oh, my mand duck.“
you are great, ducky.
Howard the duck
was my very first film, ever.
Lea was one who kept
whispering to me,
"listen, don't be afraid to say no"
because I did all the major stunts
except the airplane.
Well, they wanted Howard the duck
to be edgy and a doll, but they thought,
well, we got to make it a family film too.
And I don't know that
those two things really work.
It's so life-like and realistic!
Bug off!
Howard the duck is a pg rated
movie that opens
with a topless duck and duck boobs
if there is, in fact, such a thing.
And there are a few blue jokes
in Howard the duck,
Lea Thompson opens up
this wallet and finds a
sort of duck condom.
No, there's a condom in the wallet?
Why would they think
that's a family movie?
Crazy!
Howard...
Unfortunately, you got this vibe,
that the duck is going to do it
with Lea Thompson.
You could always give it a try.
He's a little cigar smoking horn dog,
and he gets the women on
his planet, so he's here.
So when in Rome... and he came on to
her and she called his bluff.
I just can't resist your intense
animal magnetism.
As an adult, seeing
Howard the duck wake up in a bed with a
human lady, it's a little questionable.
There were a lot of things going
against it and not enough going for it.
Willard huyck, Howard the duck was
definitely his first big budget production.
Willard would shoot 20, 30, 40
takes of just this...
Cut! Do it again.
Willard and Gloria didn't quite get it.
I saw the whole thing
going south, you know,
because they were having trouble
making decisions like in everything.
The director had a meltdown.
I had a meltdown, too.
And so Lucas came in to direct.
He didn't pull punches.
Not so passive aggressive,
more aggressive.
You and babyface are gonna
beat it! Right, Mr. Zits?
Before I get really mad!
The technology
just wasn't there
to make Howard believable.
And if you didn't believe Howard,
then the whole movie falls apart.
What's this?
The notion of an alien duck cracked me up.
Of all the alleys in the world I could
have fallen into that night.
Why did it have to be yours?
But at the end of the day,
it really is just a guy in a duck suit
telling dirty jokes, and I think that's
the ultimate problem of Howard the duck.
The duck wanted to do it with the girl.
This is not what you think.
We're just very good friends.
Star Trek iv: The voyage home
I know a good idea when I see one.
I knew that Star Trek iv was
going to be an enormous success.
I read it and I said,
"this story has it all."
Do not approach earth.
The transmissions of an orbiting probe
are causing critical damage to this planet.
Leonard nimoy had proven with star
trek III that he was a capable director.
So when it came time to
direct Star Trek iv,
he was then in a position to negotiate.
I want to do something different.
We're going to attempt
time travel.
And we're going to lighten things
up, we're going to have more fun.
Can you direct me to
the naval base in Alameda?
It's where they keep
the nuclear wessels.
I got to write comedy.
There was a previous draft of a story that
harve and Leonard had concocted together.
I was told that it had a big role
for Eddie Murphy.
My friend dawn Steele,
who was head of production at the time,
she said, “we have a problem,
we're going into production in a month.
We're not going to use the script.
We have to start over."
So I walked across the lot
to their office,
and they told me the story
about the whales.
As suspected, the drone's transmissions
are the songs sung by whales.
And harve said,
"I'll write the parts in outer space
and you write the parts on earth,
in San Francisco."
And I said, "San Francisco?
That's the same movie as time after time.“
can we go some place else?
Why can't we go to Paris?
And they said,
well, because the whales wouldn't
fit in the sand or some - you know.
And I took stuff that I'd cut out of time
after time and threw it into this movie.
You know, waste not want not
never throw anything away.
Very complicated to be in front
of the camera and behind the camera.
Star Trek iv is something
that he worked on
really heavily before they
ever shot it for the film.
He really knew what he was doing,
had a clear vision going in,
and I think that's what really saved him.
I'll give you 100 dollars.
Is that a lot?
Star Trek iv ends up
becoming a very accessible film,
even for non Star Trek fans.
Why don't you watch where
you're going, you dumb-ass!
Double dumb-ass on you!
Every laugh is earned,
every laugh is honest.
Everybody remember
where we parked.
I thought the scene between bill
and Leonard in the car was just charming.
It was just delightful.
You guys like Italian?
- No.
- Yes.
Yes, I love Italian.
At the end of the movie,
we took whale song and processed it
with some electronic stuff.
There's no dialog.
You have to tell the audience
that this is a communication
between whale in this
weird sci fi object,
there are sort of two distinct
sounds of the probe.
There's the danger mode.
I went in with my best designs.
Leonard, he said, "they don't work.
It should sound like this. And he went
'whab, whab, whab, whab'"
in this deep,
he's got this big, deep voice.
And I said, "great.
We're recording Leonard."
And he called my bluff.
And Leonard bellied up to the
microphone just like this and he went,
"whab, whab, whab, whab"
just like that.
And that's what's in the movie.
But the ultimate villain,
which is in Star Trek iv, is man.
Since the dawn of time, men
have harvested whals for a variety
of purposes. Most of which can be
achieved synthetically at this point.
The studio wanted to know
what the probe was asking or saying.
And I said
"that's dumb, could never live
up to the mystery."
I said, "we're not doing that.“
and I remember dawn Steele saying,
"you're wrong, Nicky Mayer."
And I said, "well, that's just how
the cookie is going to crumble."
Star Trek ii, III and iv
is my absolute favorite Star Trek trilogy.
It tells a really wonderful story.
No one was doing anything
like that at that time.
So to take these three movies
and really make them a cohesive trilogy
is really super beautiful.
Hello computer.
Just use the keyboard.
Music hits us on a very visceral level.
These beautiful, symphonic,
gorgeous scores that are bringing you
on a journey and advancing action.
A good composer picks a range
for a character. When they're sad,
and when they're happy
and when they're in action
and when they're resting.
Would anyone like to review
that for us today?
I think all good film
composers are chameleons,
if they're talented in a wide ranging way
for that career, you have to have
a wide open musical mind.
What really changed in
the '703 was really Steven Spielberg,
because he brought back the idea
that big orchestras are great.
And everybody followed suit because
those movies were making money.
It's very easy
to evoke the emotions of the film
by listening to the score.
The movie's already in your head,
so when you drop that needle on that vinyl
and close your eyes
and you listen to that opening score
for Superman or star wars,
you're right there,
you're back in the movie.
That music is huge.
It reminds you that this is a story
about an entire galaxy.
When you heard...
You know what's coming.
John Williams, certainly what he produced,
or created was monumental.
It made an unbelievable impact.
With the last starfighter,
the problem was you were in
the footsteps of star wars,
and if you go off and say, "hey, Nick,
let's do this electronically,
you're doomed."
So you had to respect
that your palate was going
to be a big symphony orchestra.
It's pretty normal when I'm explaining
what I want to do to a director
to just sing a melody
or try to imitate the sound.
When I played the theme
to the last starfighter,
I was sitting on a piano, going
"And now six trumpets play..."
They had to imagine it all
from a guy playing a piano.
That ain't easy.
Back to the future turns out to be
Alan Sylvester's very first
orchestral score.
Bob zemeckis said they
need your score to make
it feel like it's a much bigger
movie than it really is.
So al put together what
turned out to be, I'm told,
the biggest orchestra ever
assembled in Hollywood at that time.
Ai nailed it.
American movies are
partially basil poledouris
and partially Jerry goldsmith's.
Basil is much more epic.
You see the scenes through a filter.
The filter is the music.
Elmer Bernstein got to your heart in a way
that very few composers managed to do.
I trusted his laugh and his lack of laugh,
when it happened, and it gave
me confidence in what I was doing.
I love him and I really miss him.
One of the things that you have to do
when you make a movie and you have to show
the rough cut to anybody
is you have to put a temp track on it.
Composers generally
don't like to have to watch the movie
with somebody else's music on it.
The editor and the director are often
what we call married to their temp track.
And so now you find yourself
unwittingly turning your movie
into something that is cut to the rhythm
of the music that you're not going to use.
The most famous example of a temp track
would be 2001: A space odyssey,
in which Stanley kubrick temped
the entire movie with Richard Strauss,
Johann Strauss and then had a composer
and immediately went, "you know?
I think the temp track's way better than
what you did" and he threw out the score
and went back to the temp.
First, let me see your
film in musical silence,
because that's how my imagination
works in that blank slate plays.
Mr Cameron and Gale Anne hurd
came to my studio and showed me the rough
cut of the Terminator, without a temp
track. I was kind of blown away.
There was a very primitive early
sampling device called an emulator one.
You could plug a microphone
into this keyboard
and make some weird sound
and then reproduce it with the keyboard.
And that's how I did
the clank on Terminator.
I had this cheap little Mike
and I hit a frying pan
because I wanted this big ample sound
and I got an anvil sample.
It just sounded like...
That little piece of technology
was the key to establishing
the sound for the original Terminator.
Ben jealous from blade runner.
That was so strange and different and new,
he created these ambient
pads, which was a very
progressive idea in that day,
in a way that sound designers now very
commonly do, he'd create these emotive
kind of atmospheres that weren't music,
but he used synthesizers and chimes
and embedded them in scenes
to create an ambiance feel.
The soundtrack to repo man
is a little more my speed
than the soundtrack to blade runner.
They started flipping the script
a little bit by introducing modern
rock music into what should
be a science fiction film.
Excuse me.
Kirk Thatcher did the vocals for
I hate you and he wrote the lyrics,
I literally wrote a song in a lunchtime,
recorded it live in one take.
And he's the punk on the bus.
We just had a ton of fun doing it.
Today, there's very little thematic music.
Music is more almost like a sound effect.
But in the '80s, there was a lot
of use of melody and themes.
There are so many great composers of
that era who wrote themes
and wrote melodies that you could hum
when you left the theater.
I love that.
That's one of the joys of cinema.
You can associate the moment in the score
with the images in the film
inside your head.
By the way, that's how you
know it's a good score.
This moment with that moment
will go together forever.
It's just a beautiful thing.
Arnold Schwarzenegger
predator
it was at the height
of the Rambo craze and the height
of the craze over aliens,
and all of a sudden
some whiz kid just said,
"put them together“.
I think in the '80s you saw
a transition in these kinds of movies
to something that was more
superhero in a way than hero
in a way. A branded physique.
The heroes were all buffed up.
It was a time
where your physical appearance
determined your masculinity
in terms of buffness.
I was fond of predator
because it felt like the most uniquely
crafted Schwarzenegger film in which
he was allowed to be more of an actor,
he was allowed to be afraid and desperate.
Payback time.
We go down there expecting to do our jobs
as a rescue team.
Stick around.
But we end up becoming the hunted.
There's something in those trees.
I think what's great about
predator in the storytelling
is allowing the audience to understand
who the characters were beyond Arnold.
I think they did an outstanding job
of giving everyone in the platoon
their bit of time on screen.
The question is, do you care about anybody
that got shot?
I just like great writing.
I was the ultimate tough guy.
Of course, the most special scene for me
and the one where I'll brag and say,
I stole the film
from Arnold.
You're hit, you're bleeding man.
I ain't got time to bleed.
And it almost didn't come about.
That scene got cut.
You've got time to duck?
And I'll never forget,
I can than montezuma's revenge,
because Arnold got sick
and Arnold couldn't shoot that day.
Predator is the one that everybody really
talks to me about.
The razor.
I'm gonna have me some fun tonight
when I'm going up the hill.
“I'm gonna have me some fun.
I'm gonna have me some fun.”
It still plays.
When I die, that's when
the platoon falls apart.
That's when panic set in.
These guys are really scared.
They're really big and muscular, and
they're dying and they're really dying.
The toughest guys in the world
who already know
that they're doomed,
this now becomes an existential movie.
There's something out there
waiting for us.
And it ain't no man.
Kevin Peter hall played the predator.
Kevin was the only one who
probably truly could have did the part,
because he had to be able to pick
Arnold up and make Arnold look small,
and he certainly did that.
John mctiernan knew what he was
doing in slowly revealing that character.
And it finally culminates
in one of the great reveals
in the history of sci fl,
and that's when the predator takes off
his bio helmet and reveals that face
with those mandibles.
And Arnold says,
"you one ugly motherfucker."
That is my favorite moment in that movie
when they have their final
mano a mano battle.
Predator reveals his face
drops his shoulder Cannon,
he's like, "let's go."
That's badass.
It just comes together as a thrill ride.
It's a perfect slice of what
pulp does best.
One of the prime examples
of testosterone driven
badass sci fi.
Yeah.
You son of a bitch.
Spaceballs
the movie.
The very first
joke of spaceballs is its title,
and everything after that is just one
joke after another.
May the Schwartz be with you.
Adorable.
All of this stuff kicked off
with star wars, obviously,
the very first shot of star wars.
You see the spaceship and it just goes on
and on and on. So many movies like just
absolutely copied star wars and said,
we need the giant
biggest spaceship ever.
When you think it's over,
it's not over.
And then when you think it's over,
it's still not over.
Mel Brooks
was able to take satire
and make it into a blockbuster.
Oh, no. Not again!
He honored the genre,
whether with history of the
world, part 1, blazing saddles.
He was able to truly understand the genre
he was trying to make fun of.
Dear me, what are those
things coming out of her nose?
Highbrow jokes
that really invited you in
to intellectually
make fun of the world
we were currently living in.
Spaceballs!
Breaking that fourth,
fifth, sixth, seventh wall.
Uhm, he did it.
He's making fun of the commercials
that we're watching on TV.
He's making fun of what happens
when we eat that much fast food
and we become what we eat.
The notorious gangster
became locked in his car
and ate himself to death.
You satirize
what it means to be
a completely vain society
that wastes all of its natural
resources and then goes and tries
to take those resources
from another planet.
Suck! Suck!
In spaceballs,
they talked about the
hilariousness of merchandizing.
I mean, that was how George Lucas
made all his money.
How did he know?
What is it that you do here?
Merchandizing.
Where the real money from the -
- movie is made.
Spaceballs the lunchbox!
Spaceballs the breakfast cereal!
Spaceballs is the flame thrower.
Flame thrower!
The kids love this one.
That was just nuts.
Dinks, first speaking role, by the way.
Dink dink.
Dink dink,
dink dink dink dink dink dink.
To this day, I don't know
what the dinks really did.
I don't care.
I was working with John candy.
I'm my own best friend.
Give me paw!
Bill Pullman, Daphne zuniga.
He shot my hair!
Son of a bitch!
Shields and yarnell
lorene yarnell was the gold robot
that Joan rivers voiced.
Will you turn that thing off?!
What?
What is it?
We were in on the joke
and it was peak Rick moranis.
Oh, your helmet is so big!
Dark helmet!
Michael winslow has this unique talent.
And the creeps.
I'm sure there's more on
the cutting room floor.
There's no way there's not.
It shows how diverse
the cast was in their skills.
It feels like all
the worlds are just colliding in this one
little mini comedic universe
that we're all waiting for
spaceballs ii to come out for.
God's willing we'll all meet
again in spaceballs ll:
The search for more money.
Still waiting.
Hello, my baby. Hello, my honey.
Hello, my ragtime gal.
Dennis quaid
Martin short
give yourself a shot
of adventure.
Innerspace
innerspace is about
technology gone awry.
The first person that can put someone
inside someone's body
and use them to kill them is the winner.
When innerspace came to me,
it was a picture that
Peter guber and John Peters owned.
And it was not a comedy.
It was a straight
spy movie with the plot of a guy who gets
shrunk down and put inside another guy.
I suggested diplomatically
that people would laugh at this idea,
and then they came back and they had hired
Jeffrey boam, who was a very
good writer, and he had come
to it with a different idea,
which was what would happen
if Dean Martin was shrunk down
and injected into Jerry Lewis.
And that was something that as a Martin
and Lewis fan of my youth,
I could certainly relate to,
and I said, "yes, now this works.
Now it's funny."
That's when Steven
Spielberg became involved.
When fantastic voyage was made,
it used the best technology.
Everything in it was
cutting edge for the time.
When we did innerspace,
of course, the technology has improved
so much, and we've gone so far ahead
in leaps and bounds.
I loved all the practical stuff
in that movie.
Just relax, Jack.
Let's see what's going on in here.
And how realistic they looked
prior to the advent
of any sort of computer
graphics.
Entering blood street.
You know, things like him
flying through the bloodstream
with the red blood cells
or seeing out of
Martin short's eyes.
Firing optic sensor.
And then you have the battle
inside the car
where there's a very clever
use of force perspective.
If you're working
with Martin short,
if you do ten takes, take ten is like
from a different movie than take one.
He likes to discover.
He likes to try new things.
Jack, you've just
digested the bad guy.
He and Dennis are never on screen together,
except at the very end.
But yet it wasn't going
to work to pre-record
Dennis's dialog
or pre-record Martin's dialog.
So our sound guy,
Ken kahn, came up with an idea
that allowed them to talk to each other
during takes.
So whenever I did a scene with Marty,
Dennis would still be there off screen
and they could talk to each other
and they could improvise.
In here, inside you.
Inside your body!
Somebody help me!
I'm possessed!!!
One of the reasons that their relationship
in the movie works so well is
because it's actually a real relationship
that they were having
at the moment.
You have seen parts of my body
that I will never get to see.
Believe me, you're
not missing all that much.
I love my character in the film,
just a malevolent presence.
He didn't talk.
He was just there.
My hand,
I had a multitude of things,
which was kind of fun.
The gun, the flame thrower,
an automatic submachine gun,
which we don't see because that scene
was taken out of the film. And the sex toy.
Yeah, the sex toy.
Very quick, but you see it.
They had this rig that they put me in.
Then they lowered it down into the floor,
which is where I get
shrunk down.
I have a fear of claustrophobia.
I was sweating bullets,
really, hated it.
It went very smoothly, and everybody
liked the movie when they saw it.
And the only thing
that I will say, that terrible ad campaign,
and so it didn't make any money.
But aside from that,
it was a great experience.
The future of law enforcement.
Robocop
robocop has all of those elements
that make greatness in cinema
and storytelling.
The fight for dignity,
the human condition at stake, humor.
I'd buy that for a dollar!
A slap in the face of society.
I called my agent and I said,
"they're changing his title, right?
It's not going to be the title."
Who's going to go see
a movie called robocop?
Boy, was I wrong about that.
In the beginning, for me, was very weird,
because Peter weller said to me,
"you have to call me robocop.
You cannot call me Peter."
So there was already some tension,
you know?
The robo suit ten hours later,
we're sitting there going,
oh my god.
He was so frustrated.
In fact, in the very first weeks,
there was a crisis.
They were thinking of
pulling the plug on on the film.
They literally had to assemble him.
It was like a toy, putting him
together with a screwdriver.
Every time I started feeling
sorry for myself,
I just looked at Peter,
who was in this big plastic thing.
And they got it down to about
three or four hours.
It's not as easy as it looks.
Robo teams robocop.
It's robocop lore, the battles
he had with Paul verhoeven
and I was there for many
of those battles in Rob's studio.
The way Rob sculpted that,
the way it was painted,
the finish on that machine,
it's a piece of art.
Drop it!
The shooting experience,
it was like this fast moving train,
and the film had that energy to it.
We felt so creative and we were so loose,
it was everything but was in the script.
I thought that it should have a different
style than American action movie,
that it should be partially light hearted,
that it should be a bit funny,
that you would be a bit amazed.
Can you fly, Bobby?
Clarence boddicker,
he's having a great time.
Bitches leave.
He's this sociopath.
You probably don't think
I'm a very nice guy.
You can't get crazy with it
because he still has
to be taken seriously.
Cops don't like me.
With the language,
I kept adding things, especially f-bombs,
I was big on
throwing those in all the time.
I don't want to fuck
with you, sal.
Bad guys,
they never think they're bad.
This corporation will live up
to the guiding principles
of its founder: Courage,
strength, conviction.
There is a vague
religious component to robocop,
of course, because I felt that
the death of Murphy
should be a crucifixion
because there was a resurrection.
That's why that scene
is extremely violent,
because crucifixion is one of the worst
punishments that you can imagine.
Paul grew up in world war ii.
He saw real violence.
His whole concept of
the violence in robocop
is he wanted it to be so over
the top that you got the joke
immediately.
You have 20 seconds to comply.
I think you'd better
do what he says, Mr. Kinney.
Oddly enough, they cut it back so much so
that it finally got to where it was
right on the edge of what you could stand.
They made the violence
more egregious by doing it that way.
That's non-artistic
people trying to make decisions
that they have no business making.
Ed-209 really wanted to emphasize
the stupidity of
American automobile design.
And so I proposed to Paul
that we build a full scale ed-209.
When ed falls down the stairs,
the sound effects was a baby pigs
getting their throat slit.
Shootouts, things blowing up.
It was a pretty active show.
Guns going off and car crashes,
it was pretty exciting.
One of the things that Nancy
and her character,
Louis were really responsible for,
within the movie, was bringing
robocop back to his humanity.
Murphy, it's you.
It really was about
the human connection that I had
with this part human character.
The soul was really still there.
Parable of loss of who are you
when that's gone.
Murphy had a wife and son.
What happened to them?
The scene when he
goes to his house
and it's empty,
it just made me almost cry,
and that's when I said,
this is a really good movie.
Can you that, dad?
It's a sad frigging movie, man,
it is a poignantly sad, sad, though,
even at the end, he said,
"what's your name, kid?“
"Murphy."
Okay, he's got something back, right?
But he doesn't have it back, Matt.
That's gone.
He's not a guy, he's a machine.
What are they gonna do,
replace us?
I like when a good film
will present those ideas
and do it in a humorous way,
but enough that it gets your attention
and gets you to think about it.
Robocop was urban dystopia.
I based it on elements that I saw.
Of course, it was happening in society
already, but were not visible yet.
But now we are here.
The power of its messages
trickle down
economics of the privatization
of the world and capitalism
run amok.
Yes.
I was not aware of how long lasting
the social strata of robocop would last.
I don't know. It's a one off man.
That movie is extraordinary.
Excuse me, robo, any special message
for all the kids watching at home?
Stay out of trouble.
The running man
what running man did. It
predated reality TV.
The running man:
America's favorite game show.
Running man is kind of dead on to
what happened with reality TV,
only in the case of the running man,
the reality was termination,
which we have unfortunately got to,
but I'll say yet.
It's time to start running!
Richard Dawson was your perfect
comedic bad guy.
He was just playing the role
he did on family feud.
Come on, let's play the feud,
let's go.
It made perfect sense to me.
I'd like you to volunteer
to appear on tomorrow's broadcast.
Halfway through filming predator,
Arnold came up to me on the set
and he said, "my next film this fall
is called the running man, there's a part
in there you're perfect for."
This is a sport of death and honor!
Code of the gladiators!
By the time
my part got there,
they were on their third director.
Fortunately for me, that director was
Paul Michael glaser.
Daven, here in the locker room,
there's a lot of excitment here.
Captain freedom, my character
in running man,
he was the greatest stalker of all time,
and he got old and like all old stalkers,
he ends up with a microphone.
Are you ready for pay?
Are you ready for suffering?
Running man was on the edge of technology
predicted in the movie
that has become reality today.
Maria conchita goes into her apartment
and starts turning things on by voice.
Well, that's a common practice now.
- Kitchen, Some coffee.
- Channel one.
We've already reached the running man
stage of technology.
There's a very crude,
1980's style sort of digital frame to make
you think that one person is there
when in actuality, it's someone else.
You'll never know the difference.
All right boys.
Running man
definitely predicted
deepfake technologies.
They created this phony fight.
Peter Kent,
I ended up fighting Peter
because Arnold wouldn't take a suplex.
He made Peter do it instead of him.
Let one out there, didn't I?
I'll always
Cherish this, I get to go to my death
as being one of only a handful
of people who've ever killed
Arnold Schwarzenegger on screen.
Running man was more to show how sick
I think we, a society,
can actually stoop to.
Entertainment knows no boundaries.
We don't give a damn what it is
as long as we get entertained by it
in the end, a pretty sick thing
to have sitting in our systems,
isn't it?
I'll be back.
Only in a rerun.
We all know that the
hero's journey is fundamentally
a part of many stories and science
fiction, usually a single character
who is initiating some adventure,
some call to action,
and that there is this
tremendous transformation.
Father! The sleeper has awaken!
Where do I come from?
Why do I matter?
What can I do to contribute
to the universe
in a real, meaningful way?
When we connect to heroes,
those are our idea! Selves.
Flash Gordon, he's just a guy
he doesn't have any superpowers,
relies solely on his wit
and his athleticism.
They carry attributes
and features that we
want to see in ourselves.
Brave, courageous, taking risks,
being compassionate, being vulnerable,
intelligent. When we're in these moments
with these characters
feeling the fear,
the phobia, the desperation,
sometimes even grief.
Why not make me an author?
We all need to see the hero
have those things to relate to them.
Alex is essentially a very reluctant hero.
I mean, I would say a coward, really.
There's been a big mistake.
Am I to understand you're actually
declining the honor
- of being a starfighter?
- You got it.
What are you a coward?
Are you a coward?
Which I found very believable.
We also come to learn
that heroic actions do
not have to be huge,
extraordinary broad things,
they can be small,
very meaningful actions.
It is illogical for you to perform
this energy pack transplant. Oy.
I like unsung heroes.
I like the people who
nobody ever talks about.
Hold him in the security tower.
Keep it quiet. Move.
If you boil down the classics
as we know them, empire strikes back,
et, the Terminator,
what unites them all is humanity.
And is the way that the directors
and the writers create character
that's accessible.
When you're gotten past the energy
shield, proceed directly
to the randevue point.
Women like Princess Leia,
like vasquez, like Sarah Connor.
They're empowered.
They make decisions
that other people don't like.
They take initiative, they take control.
You're terminated, fucker.
We needed to have that as young women.
Lewis, I received so much
mail from young girls
that just loved this character.
I made them feel powerful.
You just stay away from me, bishop.
You got that straight?
These are characters
that the audience can relate to.
It was very encouraging for young girls
that they could accomplish
these things that may traditionally
have been left to the guys to do.
Many of us are drawn to the anti-hero.
There are aspects within them
that maybe fulfill some of our desires.
This concept of rule
breaking and nonconformity.
I have come here to chew
bubble gum and kick ass.
Something snarly
about those characters
that anti-establishment.
It's a different attitude.
Yes, I bet you have.
If we think about han, Max.
I'm just here for the gasoline.
Snake.
Get a new president.
Selfishness is there,
that sense of wanting to do
what's best for them is there.
And yet somewhere
in that rugged individuality,
somewhere in that stubbornness is a heart.
I'll chase him down the moons
of nibia and 'round the antares
maelstrom and 'round perdition's
flames before I give him up.
We connect to so many villains.
They're fascinating,
they're alluring, they're different.
I'm supposed to hate
or despise the villain,
but I actually feel connected
to them. Why?
If only you could see what
I have seen with your eyes.
I had no idea of the power of ursa.
I have powers beyond
reason here.
There's a real outlet
for bad behavior in these villains.
There's a vicarious indulgence
in rooting for the villain.
Ooh, guns, guns, guns!
And I think
that's a safe way to be close to evil,
destruction, bad behavior, and know,
that's ultimately not what I'm about at
the end of the day.
To be a good villain you had to
believe you were the good guy.
Once you believe you're the villain,
then suddenly you become stereotypical
of everything that everybody
wants a villain to be.
Take that program
to the holding pit!
Part of humanity
is acknowledging that we're not all good
and all perfect, that we have elements
of destruction, we make mistakes, that's
human psychology.
There will come a day when I'll
show all of you! Don't you forget it!
Seeing these characters overcome adversity
gives us really important suggestions
for our own lives
and our own behaviors.
No, biff. You leave her alone.
You leave her alone.
Is there anything
from this narrative that I feel inspired
by, that maybe I could do.
And what is it like to overcome
something that seems insurmountable?
I don't want you to think
earth girls are easy.
Earth girls are easy
earth girls are easy
was like an mtv musical.
It is a provocative title,
but the idea is that girls are complex
and you have to be open to changing
what you think is going to make you happy.
I need surprises.
I need romance.
I mean, how long has it been
since you said, "I love you"...
The original original idea came from -
you remember those
national enquirer stories?
I saw one where this woman said
an alien came in through the doggy door
and she had sex with him.
We thought that was hilarious.
Hey, come on everybody!
We're doing a makeover.
I thought the whole thing
should be a break into song musical.
Charlie coffey, my writing partner
and I, we proceeded to write,
I don't know, 25 drafts,
the reality of it was much different
when they finally landed on Julien temple,
they sent me his movie absolute beginners
to break into song musical.
So I thought, oh my god, this is perfect.
Once Julien got attached,
they realized the budget was going to be
this certain amount, and I wasn't
a big enough name to warrant that amount.
So I went in
and pitched me as the second lead.
And they went for it, but I was like,
so freaking
depressed about it and angry.
I've had to come to terms
with earth girls.
Geena Davis and Jeff goldblum,
they're both really nice.
It came as a package deal.
They were so in love
and they were making out on the set
all the time, and I found it irritating
because I was like, "this is my movie.
We must take this seriously."
The aliens,
we thought it would be really funny if
they were hairy when they first showed up.
Not recognizable as cute boys.
Shit, Valerie! Those are aliens!
And that there'd be this transformation.
Wow!
When they suggested Jim carrey
to me, for whitlock,
it was the craziest of the aliens.
He has this like not quite human quality
that he does on stage.
You won't be seeing much
more physical humor on my show.
There was a big search for that part.
I mean, I feel like
we're very lucky that he did it.
I'm going home with him.
Bitch.
Damon wayans is willing
to sort of do anything.
The aliens themselves
didn't have any kind of racism,
we thought that was very cool.
It very much captures '803
valley specifically, and,
you know, they use the observatory
as the disco.
I would have loved
if there was more valley landmarks
that were in there that are gone now.
It really has this time
capsule quality of the '80s.
Love comes in
many forms and many shapes, right,
and it could be an alien from space,
something that is very relevant
and means something to me,
especially with,
you know, all my gay friends.
The thing is, earth girls
really are not easy,
but if she just took her vision
and changed it a little,
the perfect man did show up.
Sounds like you have two hearts.
- Yes. Don't you?
- No.
Akira
a government experiment that creates
super humans who are so powerful
their thoughts can destroy
everything.
Akira in the late '803 was
one of the first Japanese
anime things that came to the states
that people started to appreciate
and realize
how big this stuff is in Japan.
Like, it's not just Saturday
morning cartoons.
It was a big, big movie.
I think Akira kind of opened
that door in america.
Before I was aware
of Akira, I was a fan of
Japanese animation,
I really loved battle of the planets
and macros and robotech.
These are all cartoons
I watched after school.
When I was at a convention
and I saw the artwork for Akira on a vhs,
I thought, wow, cool, a movie.
And we put it in and what we had
was a third or fourth generation bootleg.
And it was all in Japanese.
It was not subtitled or dubbed.
We had no idea what the story was.
The animation was so compelling.
We just knew that this was amazing
and earth shaking
and was unlike anything we had ever seen.
It's about tetsuo's friends
trying to save him,
even when they realize that the way to
save him is to destroy him.
I've only been to Tokyo once,
and my oven/vhelming impression of it
was that Tokyo is just on top of you.
You can't move. In Neo Tokyo,
they've rebuilt Tokyo
and actually expanded some of the highways
and giving it more space.
Akira is the very first time I ever saw
one of those shots,
incredible motorbike coming at you
and starting that power slide
like what seems like
hundreds of feet away.
It's the visual Wilhelm scream
of anime,
it has to be in every anime,
and all of that was hand
animated and hand painted.
That was just jaw dropping to me.
I finally did see Akira in English,
and it's even better than what
I thought it was as a kid.
Hi, kids! It's me,
Ronald McDonald.
And I'm on the set of my
very first motion picture ever.
It's a movie called Mac and me.
Mac and me is the kirkland e.T.
There is an entire
generation of people
who only know Mac and me
because Paul rudd shows a
scene from Mac and me
on conan o'brien every time he goes
there to promote a movie.
I get a phone call and it's the guy
that I've never met.
And he said, "I have a film
that I want you to direct and write.
It's a lot like e.T., but I want to do it
with a family with an actual person
with a spinal bifida condition."
We didn't steal anything from him,
it was just a concept
to have an alien creature,
so I need the prototype aliens,
big big eyes, nothing like e.T.
And animated and cute.
It's the kids.
Can we go there and watch?
No way!
The lead boy, Jade calegory,
he was exactly what we want, and he could
act and he was wonderful in the movie.
Please? I won't anybody
hurt you.
It was fun to make
the film, but it was extremely limiting
because the creature
is really a puppet on cables.
Everything was time consuming,
but it worked.
He's so wholesome in his element.
They were both very cute together.
But it's all done
on the level of children.
It's a whole different world
when you're writing for kids.
It was a charitable endeavor.
The producer is a man
that worked for McDonald's,
who is this big, main supplier,
a multimillionaire.
He was probably,
you know, polishing his own look
by making a film and giving
all of the money to this company.
Everything is a deal
behind films because films just cost
way too much money to make.
Well, the Ronald McDonald
actor in the film
was the one that was actually on TV
in all the commercials.
It was a crossover of perfection.
We have this building that
they're giving us.
We have as many dances
as we can put in there.
That's how it was created.
One of the dancers
in that background,
which we shot was Jennifer Aniston.
Can you believe that?
Nobody paid tribute to this producer
than made a whole movie
to help people who were handicapped
have more presence in the film business,
and it destroyed the kid.
He did it because he wanted to show
the people that couldn't move
except in a wheelchair
could do all this stuff.
So then Paul rudd comes along
and he sticks out this whole scene
with Jade losing control of his wheelchair
and flying off a cliff.
He did it
year after year after year, he is single
handedly kept that movie alive.
I would love to sit down with him
and write a sequel
to that movie with him
starring in it with this creature.
My wife's always saying
we should call Paul rudd.
Sometimes science fiction
holds an obligation
to give messages and even commentary
about our social systems.
Alien nation
alien nation was tackling
themes of racism and segregation.
At least I'm a detective,
not some outer shit space thing.
Not very subtle metaphor.
Their ship was a slave ship,
washed ashore on earth with no way
to get back to where they came from.
There are immigrants
who have ended up in la.
A lot of the time doing the menial jobs.
So it's a kind of it's
a look at the way L.A.
Works.
Alien nation is basically
a science fiction
version of a buddy cop movie.
Change your mind?
Two mismatched cops
come together to solve a crime,
well known trope
by this point in the '803.
Hey, nice signal dickhead!
The film stars
James caan as the human cop,
Matt Sykes and Mandy patinkin
as his alien counterpart,
George Francisco.
My true name is stangya-sorenz-ahhhh.
Sorenz-ah,
- well, gesundheit. Ha.
- Thank you.
I'll call you George.
Terence stamp plays
the newcomer, the villain in the film.
You move one finger and
you're history, you hear me?
Not history. Eternity!
Gale Anne hurd.
She didn't want to be seen just as James
Cameron's producer, she wanted to say,
actually, I do my own things.
And that's where alien nation comes in.
It has the feel of the Terminator,
it has a feel of that
look the way that Cameron
went about science fiction.
Where's the drug?
Bring the science to the contemporary.
Bring it to the current city
and that idea that Los Angeles
is an essential character
in the whole piece.
Initially, when Stan Winston
and his team got that job,
they were hoping to make the aliens
a little less humanoid.
Some of his team were looking at the
Louis gossett junior character in enemy
mine as inspiration for where they could go
but in the end, and I believe wisely so,
the filmmakers said, no,
we want them to be closer to human
to really play up that theme of
we're similar in the end, right?
So why these differences?
Yeah, I mean, it's made ofr rubber,
it's stretches, right?
And still it fits?
This genre has always
been about the expansion of our ideas
and how we relate to one another.
Our social elements, our
social structure, even elements
that we should be more mindful of
and even dismantle.
So why do we have to take them?
Why can't they go to Russia
- or some place like that.
- I'll drink to that.
Alien nation
thrived later, when it was
redeveloped for television.
That's when the themes that we talk about
are in your face every week,
and the show becomes an allegory
for all of these topical stories
that are still resonating today.
Where do you go looking
for a cherry 2000?
A post-apocalyptic world
that has this kind of
technological utopia that is very similar
to what we find ourselves in today.
You know, everything's
kind of taken care of
and yet there's a whole undennorld
just barely getting by and getting by
in the most ingenious
and sort of violent and horrible ways.
- Where you're from, mister?
- Anaheim.
It really is
a little scary in
its visionary aspects.
Most of the world
has given up on relationships.
So if you had your domestic mate
at cherry 2000, which was the epitome
of what you would want,
you know, if it breaks, you can't get it
fixed in the current world,
so you have to go out into zone 7.
She's at cherry 2000.
I want you to go into zone 7,
and give me one just like her.
A director just fell out,
I found out later it was Irv kershner,
and they were desperate
to get somebody and go shoot.
I read 20 pages
and it was brilliant, weird stuff,
so ijumped on cherry,
which was a moving train.
Melanie Griffith, she just had a baby.
So it was a very tough shoot,
she really had to endure a lot.
There's a little easter egg in the robot
repair thing where
Sam treadwell, played by David
Andrews, goes to see a robot repair
guy, and I put robby the robot
in gort in there, at my expense,
it was out of my little director's
slush fund. Forbidden planet is
probably the first movie of the sci
fi genre that really influenced me.
So it was giving back to that.
I am monitored to respond
to the name roby.
We shot in every toxic location in Nevada
inside hoover dam, electromagnetic forces
in the spillways and radiation zones
concocted some crazy, over-the-top
rpg fights and things like that.
The one big set piece with the magnet
in the mustang.
You'd never do it today,
it would all be cgi.
It's a real stunt
woman hanging on to that
car out over hoover dam.
Thank god it was only one take.
Vegas buried in sand dunes, I think
that was the first time it was ever done.
We did old glass maps
where you actually paint
and shoot through them, built
big sets poking out of there.
The Vegas showgirls and all that.
Besides blowing up a lot of Nevada
in the process, it's really about love,
about finding true love,
not an idealized mate
that does your bidding
and cooks you dinner.
It's about interactions
with a tough, equal or superior woman.
And finally, realizing that that's
that's more desirable.
One of the aspects
of being a science fiction
fan was a fascination
with what science
can bring us in the world of tomorrow.
What might be? What could be?
Hello, I'm Johnny cab.
It is a forecast into our future.
A lot of science
fiction writers are writing
and developing technologies
that end up becoming real in the future.
People in the fields of medicine
and technology and science,
it's very exciting to know
that all of these people were inspired
by watching Star Trek.
Klingon mummification glyph.
What were the principal
historical events on the planet
earth in the year 1987? Correct.
Sci fi
imitates real life, real life
imitates sci fi.
We create
art through our movies and our stories
that is of our imagination,
and then someone somewhere goes, "hey, hey,
what if I could do that?"
You think of all the things
that were figments of
someone's imagination.
Motion trackers, who would have thunk?
And now we're almost reliant on GPS.
What about tracking?
We can check his exact
location at all times.
The phone, which is not a phone, it's
a phone, it's a camera, it's your day
runner, it has a tape measure.
It's everything. It's your entire life.
I never thought I'd be wearing a computer
on my wrist, it's just laughable.
There are computers in our iPhones
that are actually more powerful
than the computer
that was in the Apollo missions, right?
Which is mind boggling.
In runaway, there was
that almost Internet
before its time.
The drone technology.
Police are preparing a floater
camera which will enter the house
in an attempt to locate
the runaway 912 and the infant.
All of that stuff
has pretty much come to life.
The science has caught up
to the science fiction.
There is more technological advance
in the past 50 years than there is
in all of recorded history up to 50 years
ago, and that will continue.
Arthur c. Clarke's definition
that any advanced technology
will be indistinguishable from magic.
What we think of today as impossible
and magical in 15 or 20 or even 1000
years will be commonplace.
We just don't know
what's around the corner.
And it's bound to be something
that will blow our minds right.
I would only hope that humankind
would continue to be inspired
by the possibilities of the future.
It's crazy.
I don't know where we're headed.
At some point, all of this stuff is going
to be implanted into our heads somewhere
and we'll just think something
and there it'll be in front of us.
Why not?
I would like to ask a quesiton.
Will I dream?
Of course you will dream.
Some of the things that have come to
fruition are very scary.
You know, when we talk about
facial recognition, deepfake technologies,
artificial intelligence that could
potentially take over the planet,
these are the kinds of things
that were forecast
in the '803 sci fi films
that are just now starting to break.
Deepfakes, this is an existential issue,
because we're going to come back to
the idea of, do you trust your fellow man?
It's not the deepfake
that's going to make the difference.
It's the guy behind the deepfake.
Right now, you don't even have
to do a deepfake.
Just tell the same lie over
and over and over again and you're in.
To me, that's the disturbing part,
not the ability to sing the siren song.
It's the people who are seduced by it.
We find ourselves now
in this somewhat
both inspiring and dystopian
future world that's very much
like the movies that we all watched.
Part of the nostalgia
for the '803 movies
is that they dealt with a lot of
these fears very, very well.
They dealt with government paranoia.
They dealt with technological overreach
and hyper innovation.
What are you really
sacrificing in the name of progress.
And, yeah, computers
are going to try to kill us.
And I think in some way
computers have tried to kill us.
We already live
within the construct of skynet.
If you're on any social media,
all of those systems are artificial
intelligence systems that are aggregating
all of those algorithms
and figuring out who you are
in a way that you don't even understand.
They cannot make things
like that yet.
Not yet.
Skynet in Terminator
was the warning,
and every time you input a piece of data,
you were adding to that quote
unquote skynet.
Enhance 34 to 36.
I think every generation looks
at the new technology.
There's the scariness and this hopefulness
that I think always coexist.
And so it comes down to do
we have systems in place
that allow us the beneficial
aspects of technology
while limiting the potential
for abuse and misuse.
I think that for
every new technology,
for every sci fi idea,
you can find a movie that's hopeful
about what that's going to
do to transform the world.
And a movie that's terrified about how
this thing is going to destroy everything.
There isn't a single sci
fi concept where you can't find
both of those kinds of movies.
Bill & Ted's
excellent! Excellent!
Excellent adventure
what if you had the ultimate power
of the gods in your hand
and yet you're such an imbecile
that you did
nothing with it, really.
All we are is dust
and the wind, dude.
It was so nice to see a script written
with young people who were still young.
We're wild stallions!
Who had innocence
and openness and weren't cynical and jaded
and weren't talking
like characters
out of a Woody Allen movie at 16.
How's it going, royal
ugly dudes?
The reason that Keanu and I
probably got hired was that
we were both theater kids and we both took
the characters very seriously.
Really playing them with
sincerity and not with a wink
and a nod of the audience.
It's not back to the future.
You know, we're not that big.
We didn't have a lot of money, but
we really leaned into the kind of ragtag,
sincere analog nature of this hyper
real situation that we were in.
Hey! That's us.
We're back in San dimas!
Yeah. Only now it's not now.
It's last night.
My favorite scene from bill
and Ted is the circle k
when the phone booth arrives.
Not bad!
In terms of sci fi conceits,
acting opposite yourself was really fun.
Strange things are afoot
at the circle k.
Time travel.
Multiple versions of yourself.
- 69 dudes!
- Whoa.
That kind of mind screw
type stuff is the most fun.
Want a twinkie, genghis Khan?
Our film is a strange movie.
I'm darth Ted.
I'll never rule the universe with you!
We didn't have a Rufus for,
you know, it was well into production.
Greetings, my excellent friends.
I'm here to help you
with your history report.
They kept throwing names at us,
and they went after Connery,
I think with the time bandits thing,
Keanu and I were actually
genuinely worried that they were going
to cast the wrong Rufus, but
we were really, really lucky with carlin.
I'm not strict about time travel rules,
I just want to be entertained.
The time travel mechanics
are actually very, very tight
and very, very realistic.
We'll time travel back to two days ago,
steal your dad's keys and leave them here!
My favorite time travel
mechanic is when bill and Ted decide
that they're going to do a thing
in the future using the time machine.
W see? Ow, yeah!
That's the ultimate sort of closed
loop time travel mechanic.
We can't forget to do this,
othennise it won't happen.
But it did happen!
It really could have gone off the rails
at any point along the way.
We're history.
For all of the circuits of time stuff,
they just had a boot that was like a canoe
just kind of wedged onto the top
of like this really rickety hydraulic pole
that was very high in the air
and like a shoddy sound stage
outside of phenix somewhere.
125 degrees.
Sweating profusely all the time.
Everyone just stinking to high heaven
looks like a bad carny ride.
And it's like going... jerking around,
you know, certain we were going to die.
The movie got shelved,
so it came out a full year later.
I'd written it off as having any success,
and then it just exploded.
When you're in a film that punctures
pop culture like that, there's
really no way to be prepared for it
because it is very surreal.
Party on, dudes!
I think the what if genre
is definitely a sci fi genre
and there is a sci fi veneer to anything
about bombs going off, like nuclear war.
It definitely falls into the
sci fi category, at least
until it happens.
Miracle mile
listen, I'm just a guy, who-who
picked up the phone.
It was a famous script.
Everybody's talked about this script.
It's an audacious movie made for,
I think, a 1.98 at night.
To me, it was like early Spielberg.
This can't be true.
It can't.
What would you do
if you were the only person to know
that you have 70 minutes to live?
The rube goldberg
thing in miracle mile
is that he decides to quit smoking,
so he throws his cigarette down
and a pigeon picks it up.
He lays down to take a nap
to meet his newfound love at midnight,
and the power goes off
in these three hours late.
You just missed her.
My alarm didn't go off. And the
power went out in the hotel.
This movie really starts going
when the phone rings.
What exactly are you
talking about?
I'm talking about nuclear
fucking war!
Who is this?
What would you do
if you accidentally got that phone call
and you just know that it's coming? By
getting people to really think about that
and reflect on it, it affects decision
making in the real world.
It's always walking that tightrope of
is this happening?
Am I crazy?
So he was calling from
a missile silo.
He said that they were
locked in! 50 minutes and counting.
The real time when the clock started
counting down, it's a fabulous convention.
Condoms! We won't
be needing these.
We got to repopulate
the whole planet.
The interesting thing
was the odd people in it
and the love story within it.
Trust me with this!
With what?
I love you.
By the end, it's sort of one of the
iconic images, this river of cars
and human chaos.
It was pretty crazy
for us to do that on this low budget.
I'm shot and fall, my face
falls, and I'm like, "great.
That's my hitchcockian cameo."
It was $3 million to make this movie,
which even in the '803,
I don't know how we did it.
You tell me now!
You joking, ha?!
I was in danger of being fired
every day of the shoot
because they said it was impossible to do.
Warner brothers offered a fortune.
They said if we thought about making
miracle mile as a single story twilight
zone.
The only change they wanted to make
was he woke up and it was all a dream
and then started happening again,
which would just not satisfy anybody.
It's total chaos! The fear,
it's total, absolute...
I didn't want to do
anything that gave you hope,
I hate to say it.
I wanted to shake people up.
I wanted to have them walk
out of the theater and go do something
about the issue.
It could happen more likely tonight
than back in '89.
Forget everything you
just heard and go back to sleep.
I got a huge kick out of honey,
I shrunk the kids.
What an absolutely silly idea
that I thought was really well handled.
You don't realize how terrifying
all the little things around
you can be until you're smaller
than everything.
Honey, I shrunk the kids is about
a scientist played by Rick moranis,
who accidentally shrinks his kids
and they have to traverse this backyard
in order to get back home and, you know,
fight all sorts of dangers in his backyard
now that they're this big.
I shrunk the kids.
What?
The Thompson kids too. They are
about this big, they're in the backyard.
- What?!
- Threw them out with the trash.
It's a dead lift on the Richard Matheson
story, the incredible shrinking man,
which was one of my favorite sci
fi movies when I was a kid.
Matheson was very ahead of his time.
There's allusions to that movie in it.
There are sequences where they're fighting
certain insects as an homage
to those movies of the past.
Honey, I shrunk the kids.
The movie was called teeny weenies
and gave me an opportunity
to work with my buddy Joe johnston
on his first theatrical feature film.
There was a big scorpion scene.
What we essentially did
was that, the fighting ant
and going after these children,
and the ant comes to the rescue.
Stop motion creatures,
you don't want camera moves to drive
the performance, we want the performance
to drive the camera.
And then there is another unit down
in Los Angeles
with Dave Allen that was doing
the other scenes with the ant.
One of the things about making
movies in the '803
that people today
don't necessarily understand
is how many different solutions to things
you had to find.
You couldn't just
throw it into a computer, and that's it.
You had to use force
perspective, miniatures and bigatures,
and sometimes in the single scene,
you might have a animatronic
and the kids are riding on
and then a close up that's just a head.
It's an entirely different prop.
And you had to really sort of
think about how you were going to do
every single shot in a movie
and come up with a different unique
solution.
Thanks for the lift, anty.
It has this esthetic
that is not quite realistic looking
in a lot of places,
but it 100% works for the movie
and the tone of the movie that they're
telling. These giant blades of grass
look exactly how they
should look for that movie.
The great thing about
knowing that a movie was done
practically is that you know
that at some point there was
actually a kid swimming around
in a giant bowl of milk
using a giant cheerio as a life preserver.
Help! Don't eat me!
Some of us feel like
the world was getting a little
too cynical for its own good,
a little too self-aware for its own good.
A movie like honey, I shrunk the
kids was just like, look, let's just go,
enjoy ourselves and enjoy the innocence
and sweetness of the world.
It's always got a place on my shelf
for that reason.
Nick! I've got six hours to get home,
get big, and get to the mall.
Now get moving!
I'm James Cameron
and I want to take you into
a world of cold darkness
and unrelenting pressue.
The abyss is a film
that's made on a frontier
in terms of the physicality of how
they made the film literally undennater
as a film made in a frontier of technology
and filmmaking ability
and a classic camera
and storytelling sense.
It's a mix of things.
It's a bottomless pit, baby.
Two and a half miles,
straight down.
Mary Elizabeth mastrantonio
and ed Harris, the two lead
characters, are an estranged couple.
Under extreme circumstances,
love flourishes.
You can do this.
It's a lovely inversion of aliens
in a way. The Navy seals
are the bad guys
and the aliens are the good guys.
Wouldn't you have liked the picture better
if they hadn't had the aliens down there
and just spent more time
with the rest of us
I just think they just put in another
element that was more fun.
It doesn't work for me.
Aliens was a cakewalk
compared to the abyss.
Jim Cameron, he doesn't suffer fools,
but the reason why
he's known as being a taskmaster
is because he's done the work
and he expects all of the crew
to work as hard as he is.
Crew members actually
had a t-shirt that said
life's abyss, and then you dive.
He was almost his ethos as a filmmaker.
I will make the impossible.
I will find a way of doing these things.
They shot it and these nuclear silos,
and gaffney filled it with water,
filled it with chlorine.
They had to put black beads across the top
of the tank to stop the light getting in,
but it allowed you to get out of the water
in case of emergencies.
It's dangerous filmmaking like that
you can get the bends just in the olympic
swimming pool or at 18 feet deep
if you jump up too quick.
They had to take their time at the end
of the day to safely get out of that set.
- Bud.
- Relax now, bud.
Watch me.
That sequence where
they had to basically breathe in water.
I was like that when I saw them, I just
I couldn't believe it.
And he had breathed the liquid oxygen,
that's fake.
So he has to hold his breath.
We all breathed liquid for nine
months, bud. Your body will remember.
A Navy seal demonstrates
you can breathe liquid oxygen,
and that is a real demonstration
of the effect, the experiment.
There were five rats, five takes.
The fifth rat struggled.
Cameron had to give it cpr.
- See? He's fine.
- It's a she.
But the endurance test
for the filmmakers
and for the cast was beyond difficult.
Everyone had experiences on it,
which will kind of make or break moments.
They had safety divers,
they called angels.
Okay, that was a good take Edward. I
want to print that, but let's do it again.
Ed Harris, a tough guy.
He had to swim under water
for about 40 meters,
and there are scenes where he just at the
brink of not being able to breathe anymore.
Cameron himself has
an incredible story because people forget
he would just stay undennater.
He had wights and everything. He could
keep himself at the bottom of the tank.
And Cameron pulls on his oxygen mask.
Nothing. And he goes, I'm in trouble.
And that's when a safety diver
thinks he's in distress
because he is
and comes out with a respirator
and puts the respirator in Ron,
pulls water
straight into his lungs,
and he starts to push away
because he's going to drown.
And the guy holds him closer
because he thinks he's struggling
because he's lack of oxygen.
And the story is Cameron punches him.
The only thing
last thing he can do is punch the guy
and break through into the surface.
His assistant and the safety diver
were fired on the same day,
and he was back down the boat
in the tank within hours.
That's James Cameron for you.
That's the abyss for you.
What the hell is going on?
Back to the future ii picks up
exactly where the last film left off.
And then we go to the far off
future of the year 2015.
The future. Unbelievable.
We are big believers
in the set it up, pay it off.
We thought to ourselves, hill
valley needs to be recognizable.
It's recognizable from 1955 to 1985
and in 1985 to 2015.
It has to be recognizable as well.
The great splendor of back to the future
really is its ethos is 1950,
when in terms of science fiction,
the dream was a flying car
and the cities of the future
and that's where back to the future
part ii comes in, is that it's just jokes
about 1950's idealization of the future
and all of those kind
of consumerist ideas,
wonderful kind of humaristic things.
We thought about how does the world change.
You recognize a time period
on a pop culture level
based on what new products look like.
Is it ready?
We were very cognizant
about choosing brands
that would give us a change in period.
All I want is a Pepsi.
That's what's going to make
people feel comfortable
that this is where we are.
Drying mode on.
Even though
2015, as depicted in back to the future
I! Didn't quite pan out
in reality, we all still want
a hoverboard and
I still want a pair of those self-lacing
Nike tennis shoes.
We didn't get 19 jaws movies.
They forecast our obsession
with the '803,
so they were on point with that.
There's a whole like genetic line of this
really,
really
good writing as far as a villain
that just carries all the things
that really trigger us
and push our buttons.
What's wrong with mcfly?
Chicken?
We all know a biff.
Go get it!
Back to the future ii gets
real dark, real fast.
Somewhere in the past, the timeline
skewed into this this tangent
creating an alternate 1985.
Time paradoxes, man.
You don't know what's going to happen.
Third time's the charm.
The way that you see
characters have changed
as a result of this new timeline
and these new actions that have happened.
You're very much in Marty's shoes of like
this is not the way
the world is supposed to be.
And how did it get this way
and how do I fix it?
Doc, what if we don't succeed?
We must succeed!
The cool thing
about back to the future ii
is where they go back in time again
to the events of the first movie,
and you now have this second Marty
running around
witnessing the events of the first movie
and you get the sense that that was always
happening behind the scenes
while the first movie was going on.
As a time travel junkie,
the idea of reinserting yourself
back into another set of events
that you've already gone through once
it just cracks me up.
This '80s nostalgia
that existed in these sort of future 2015,
which was obviously meant to mimic
the 1950s nostalgia
that people had in the 1980s.
But when you're in the 19803,
you don't think of that that way
to see that come true,
to have lived long enough to see what
I grew up and
become this nostalgia thing.
I don't know.
In one sense,
it makes me feel a little old,
but it is also a thing
that was very prescient about
back to the future ii.
We have a quaint little piece
from the 19803.
It's called the dustbuster.
Science fiction, certainly
the best of science fiction is inevitably
a reflection of what's going on on earth
at the time it was written,
all works of art are ineluctable products
of the time in which they are created.
This isn't about space.
This isn't about deep water.
This isn't about another dimension.
This is about us.
It's really up to the audience
to decide what they want
out of the experience.
Science fiction allowed people
to tell stories and talk about extremely
important social issues
in ways that got people thinking,
maybe without them realizing
they were thinking about it.
We have a hard time
talking about this directly,
but if I tell you this story about people
who are half painted white
and half painted black,
hating the other people
who are half painted
black and half painted white.
The idea of racism,
we see how silly and dumb it is
when you sort of see it reflected
in a different set of cultural norms
hits you in a way
that you can't see without the metaphor.
Escaping when you're a little kid
or teenager
into the world of science
fiction is a great way to start
to come to terms
with your own personality, who you are,
where you fit in the world,
and they become really important
benchmarks in how you remember your youth.
So there's something I think that's
universal about that in terms of age.
A lot of these movies
cater to a young audience
that perhaps was in a real
transition in their lives.
And these are times in your lives
that you never forget.
A3 simple as these movies appear to be,
especially by today's standards,
there's a magic to them because of their
relateability and their intimacy.
It belongs to the person that it made an
imprint on, and that's the wonderful thing
about stories. You tell it
so that somebody else
can relate to it because you related to
and that's why you wanted to tell it.
There's something about being able to have
your favorite movie
and your favorite moment
and have it with you and watch
it as many times as you want.
And it became this tradition.
We could go rent a movie
and we could sit down with our family.
It was about where we were and who we were
with at the time, and we all wish
we could be back there in some way
doing that with those people at that time.
Everybody likes to remember good times.
Some of these movies
remind us of the good times.
By the way, why are we
wearing bras on our heads?
I think that nostalgia connects us
not only with an innocent part of
ourselves, but also with our imagination,
because as we get older,
we kind of lose that imagination.
Everybody has it, but it starts to
get tarnished as we get older.
These movies endure
because it's a part of us
we don't want to lose.
As you get older,
you want to relive those moments
that meant so much to you as a kid.
You don't want them to go away because
they're actually part of who you are.
I think that what you've got as artists
and filmmakers
are a lot of adults who are still kid3.
They're capable
of working in an adult world,
but they feel like a child
and want to express that.
There's something that
keeps these directors
making these phenomena! Films.
They're affecting you
in some emotional way,
and they're feeling that emotion
when they're making it.
And I'm really glad there's people around
that are listening to their inner selves.
Art is the one thing that looks
beyond the reality that we know around us
and it shows us what's possible
and it's most noble. Art shows us
what can be and what ought to be.
That is what science
fiction at its best is all about.
Is showing us the world of tomorrow
and how human life can be better
in the future than it is right now.
That's the magic of sci fi, man.